Create a Genius

By José Silva

and Robert B. Stone





© 2020 José Silva Royalties, Inc., and Dennis Stone. All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or by any information storage and retrieval system, without permission in writing from the publisher. For inquiries, please contact Dennis Stone, txspaceguy@yahoo.com .

Cover art by Lauren Harris





About the Authors





José Silva

José Silva is one of the world’s greatest success stories. During his lifetime, he was a businessman, athlete, artist, educator, scientist, philosopher, and the founder of The Silva Mind Method. One of the true pioneers of mental training, José Silva started his research in 1944. After 22 years of research, José developed his widely acclaimed Silva Mind Method He started his business career at the tender age of six. This self-made man would eventually work his way up and become a well-respected businessman. He established an electronics training school in his hometown Community College, designed and received patents for several biofeedback instruments, and had written over a dozen books. To top it all, he developed a time-proven program that is today taught in 30 different languages, and is represented in 111 countries, worldwide. He attributed his business success to his abilities to make distinctive judgement, in being creative in problem solving, and the mental strength to make and carry out business decisions. He valued the role of intuitive intelligence and devoted his life in wanting to teach others find their own natural creative abilities within themselves. For more information, please visit www.silvamethod.com .





Robert B. Stone

Robert B. Stone was an internationally known author, teacher, and expert in achievement of the human potential. He was author and co-author of over 80 published books, most notably on self-help and powers of the mind. He wrote or co-authored over 80 books on the subject. “I have been a lecturer of the Silva Mind Method, and such have come to wish I could shout from the rooftops its many quiet successes - the slow advent of first psycho-neuro-immunology in the medical field, the accomplishments of entire faculties in the education field based on the Silva Mind Method, and the secret problem solving achievements of business executives who use the method daily.” For more information, please visit robertbstone.com .





Part 1



HOW TO TURN YOUR CHILD INTO A GENIUS





Chapter 1

WHAT WE NOW KNOW ABOUT THE MIND

When Nicholas Tesla began to experiment with newly discovered electricity, his lighting up a room was viewed as astounding and unbelievable. Nobody suspected it would lead to the lighting of cities, or the advent or radio, television, and computers.

Recent discoveries about the human mind are in the same relative stage now. We have learned how to control our brain waves and how to activate more of our mind. The mind can be trained to be in conscious control of the body. With this control, you and I who have been using our mind to make us sick, can now use our mind to make ourselves well.

By training ourselves to control our mind, we can activate more of its capacity. We can become better problem solvers. This additional mental capacity comes largely from the right hemisphere of the brain. This being in touch with creativity, it gives us access to a whole new stage of evolution for humankind.

So, you see, we are now at the same stage in the development of our mind as Tesla was in those days when he used electricity to light up a room. Just as his primitive experiments le d to the miracles of today's mass media and global communications, which people never even imagined at that time, what we now know about the human mind can transform the world. For instance….

Arthur M. has taken a four-day training that enables him to slow his brain waves. He mentally visualizes his mother while at this state of decreased brain wave frequency. She lives two thousand miles away but he pretends she is in the next room and he sends her love and energy. A few minutes later the phone rings. It is his mother.

"Why are you calling, Mom?" he asks. "Is everything all right?" "Everything's fine," she replies. "You are in my thoughts, so I called to just say hello. How are Anne and the baby?"

Even Tesla would be amazed at this. So would Edison. Today's research scientists are just beginning to admit its possible existence. More philosophical scientists today are theorizing explanations, such as: Slowing the brain waves and activating the brain's right hemisphere permits one to utilize that larger field of intelligence that appears to exist in space. More about this later in these pages, but this mind-to-mind communication is only the beginning.

A woman stops her child's bed-wetting – mentally.

A student gets the answer to a test question from his professor – mentally.

An executive looks into the future in order to make a decision – mentally.

Sound impossible? It would not sound impossible if you were trained to slow your brain waves to about half their present frequency. You would then be able to do all of these things and more. In short, you would become a more efficient thinker all of the time. You would have a higher IQ. Instead of using largely only the left side of your brain in your thinking - eccentric - you would be using both sides of your brain in your thinking - centered. A centered thinker is moving in the direction of becoming a genius.

In fact, the word genius does not do justice to a person who has centered his or her thinking. The American Heritage Dictionary defines a genius as "Exceptional or transcendent intellectual and creative power.”

When you begin to realize your fullest mental potential, you are more than "exceptional.” When you are centered in your thinking, you are even more than "transcendent" or "surpassing others."

Yes, you are exceptional and yes you do surpass others, but you also function mentally in a way that can be attributed only to a faculty of higher intelligence. Am I saying · that you become closer to being god-like? Do you mind if I answer that question later?

Let me say now that as far as we have advanced in knowing the capability of the human brain, we are still in our infancy. When one door is opened in this research, ten more doors await. To create a genius, before conception or after, is simple. We can do much more.

NASA's Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence is a $10 million all-out hunt using high powered antenna to listen in for sounds of life in this galaxy. To recognize different forms of intelligence in space, they are looking at higher forms of intelligence on earth. Are they looking at people with high IQs? No, they are looking at dolphins.

The dolphin is the world's largest "encephalized" creature. That is, it has the largest brain in proportion to its body. Our brains lie flat. The dolphin's brain stands vertically. This provides enormous auditory ability. The dolphin receives messages with its ears the way we humans do with our eyes. They have sonar ears.

When we activate more of our minds we, too, have sonar-like abilities. We obtain valuable answers, solutions to problems, and innovative ideas, as if they were floating around in outer space.

We have the ability to live with an attunement to nature - naturally, without any special knowledge - a faculty that humankind had better regain before it's too late.

We have the ability to detect abnormalities in our body's functioning and to make corrections. And we can do this for others.

We have the ability to get along better with people in our family, in our business, and in our community - another faculty that humankind had better acquire if wars are to end, and prisons emptied.

We scientists are a slow-moving bunch. We test and re-test. We like to be sure of our ground. I am no exception. My research in the human mind goes back nearly half a century. My original purpose was just personal: I wanted to help my children to be better students. I succeeded in that goal, but the more I discovered the more I realized there were even greater discoveries possible ahead.

Napoleon Hill said, more than half a century ago, "The educator who discovers a way to stimulate any mind and cause it to rise above this average stopping point without any bad reactionary effects, will confer a blessing on the human race second to none in the history of the world."

I disagree with him on only one point, that blessing was conferred upon the human race nearly two thousands years ago. But it did not "take."

Graduates of the Silva Method are able to go to a relaxed level of mind; visualize or imagine goals, changes, or solutions; and see them realized. Graduates equate this level of mind to the Kingdom of Heaven.

This Kingdom of Heaven appears to have been discovered long ago by an itinerant teacher named Jesus. According to the Bible, Jesus frequently talked about the Kingdom of Heaven and how important it is. "Seek ye first the Kingdom of Heaven," he said, "and function within God's righteousness, and all else shall be added unto you."

The Kingdom of Heaven is a mental dimension, yours for the training.

Jesus was a trainer. He trained his disciples. In Jesus day, this was the science of the times. There was little if any separation between science and religion. Today, scientists do not usually speak about the Kingdom of Heaven. Instead, they speak about the weight of the brain; its wave frequencies; the beta, alpha, theta, and delta frequency bands; the 30 billion brain neurons; the receptors; the two hemispheres - left and right.

They talk about these physical manifestations of the brain, because science is a left- brain function. I am a scientist, but I have also activated my right brain with my own training, so the pages ahead will be both scientific and spiritual. I can refer to Jesus and other spiritual leaders with the same facility that I can refer to Einstein and other scientists.

According to Matthew, Chapter 23 Verse 34, Jesus said, "Behold I send you prophets and wise men and scribes.” Someone who is a prophet and a wise man is equivalent to a genius.

Through the Silva Method, you learn how to sense - with your mind - the correct action to take to give you the beneficial results that you desire. This is prophecy. and when you do this. you are a prophet.

Through the Silva Method, you learn how to make correct decisions. how to sense what other people are thinking. how to sense what other people need. You make more right decisions than wrong decisions. You are, in every sense of the word, a wise person.

Jesus spoke of the great value of the Kingdom of Heaven, when used properly (within God's righteousness), and now modern science has proven that he was correct.

Children who enter the mental dimension that Jesus called the Kingdom of Heaven are able to do better in school. Their grades improve. They are more relaxed. They get along better with other children. All this and more has been verified and proven by scientific testing and research. and laid out in the pages that follow.

But that is only the beginning. Such a child can be admitted to a university many years before his or her peers and be doing skilled labor or professional work before the age of 20. As an adult, the former child genius makes correct decisions more frequently than incorrect. The adult genius becomes recognized for wisdom and leadership and inevitably leaves this world the better.

This book is about how you, as a parent or a person who desires to be a parent, can create geniuses who will help to convert our planet into a paradise.

You can begin even before you conceive a child. If you have already conceived a child, but the child has not yet been born, you can go to work right away. If you already have children, and they are below the age of 14, you can work with them. If they are over 14, it is best to have them attend the Silva Method Basic Lecture Series with one of our certified lecturers, or to train themselves pursuant to the instructions in Appendix A.

First a person needs to find the Kingdom of Heaven and learn to function within it. This is what the Silva Method does. The Silva Method helps a person learn to slow down brain pulsing.

The brain pulses so many times per second, the way the heart beats so many times per minute. The overall average brain pulsing of adults is 20 pulses per second. Scientists call that beta pulsing.

The Silva Method helps a person learn to slow down the pulsing to 10 pulses per second. Scientists call that alpha pulsing, or alpha rhythm.

The Silva Method also helps a person learn to function consciously at alpha.

When a person learns to slow the brain pulsing to 10 per second, and learns to function consciously within that dimension, the person will be functioning in the Kingdom of Heaven. This is the key to the improvement of life. From this dimension. your life can be influenced. as well as the life of others.

It is at 10 cycles per second (as the pulsing is called) that consciousness can function from either brain hemisphere. the logical left brain hemisphere as well as the creative. intuitive right brain hemisphere.

When the brain is functioning at 20 cycles per second. a person is using the left brain hemisphere. which is associated with beta brain function.

The brain functions as a generator. causing the human aura to radiate energy. It is a different energy when pulsing at 10 than at 20.

This energy can be objective. Objective energy is generated and controlled by the left brain hemisphere. It influences both animate and inanimate matter. but is limited by distance and is effective for a distance of only about 25 feet.

Or the energy can be subjective. Subjective energy is transmitted and controlled by the right brain hemisphere. It influences animate matter and is not limited by distance. At alpha. where you are in control of your subjective energy. you can heal and help solve other problems for persons even on the other side of the world.

The human aura. or energy field, is composed of seven different energy fields. The first three and a half fields are subjective and are controlled by the right brain hemisphere when a person's brain is vibrating at alpha, or at 10 cycles per second, with conscious awareness. Again, these fields are not limited by distance.

The next three and a half fields are objective and are controlled by the left brain hemisphere when the person is functioning at 20 cycles per second with conscious awareness. These fields are limited by distance.

Having learned to go to the alpha level is having learned to enter into the Kingdom of Heaven. This means having learned to slow down brain activity to ten vibrations per second. Entering the Kingdom of Heaven is the same as entering the alpha level. By functioning there with conscious awareness, you are attuned and doing your thinking from the right brain hemisphere.

This means that a person who has learned to function with conscious awareness from the right brain hemisphere has learned to function in the subconscious consciously. The subconscious is the seat of memory, behavior, personality, and body control.

Thinking with the left brain hemisphere when the brain is pulsing at twenty vibrations per second, the person is using his outward awareness, which is in charge of the world of the body, the physical dimension, including body motion and physical activity.

The right brain deserves more notice at this point. Let me be its public relations person.

Science is realizing, slowly but surely, that the right brain, in addition to being in close communication with the subconscious, is also in close communication with a higher consciousness, which, for want of a better word has frequently been called the superconscious. An exception was Karl Jung, a disciple of Freud, one of the founders of psychiatry. He called this higher consciousness aspect of the unconscious "the collective unconscious.” It was collective because we all could access it. Another exception is Rupert Sheldrake, a British botanist, who theorizes that forms of life share a field of intelligence. He calls it a morphogenetic field. Again, it is shared by each of us.

Are you beginning to suspect what this superconscious or higher consciousness really is? Let me put the icing on the cake. Scientists have a pretty clear job description of both the left and right brain hemispheres. One of the functions of the right brain hemisphere is to tap into creativity. Artists, authors, musicians use the right brain profusely. It is the source of their themes, ideas, plots, and originality.

In other words, this higher consciousness with which the right brain connects is the source of creativity.

Could this source of creativity be the source of creation?

Could the right brain connect us to our Source, to our Creator? Jesus, in effect, said that it does.

And I agree.

When the person does his or her thinking when the brain is pulsing at ten vibrations per second, that person is using the right brain. By relaxing to do this, the outer awareness gives way to an inner awareness. This is an awareness of the spiritual dimension.

This can also be called the world of the mind.

So our Creator resides in the Kingdom of the Mind, which is the Kingdom of Heaven, which is the Kingdom of God, which is an invisible, intangible, non-material, non-physical dimension; a spiritual, subjective dimension.

It is the same dimension where our mind and human intelligence function when the mind is attuned to the ten brain vibrations per second frequency, the center of what scientists call alpha.

It is where the person is attuned to the right brain hemisphere, the hemisphere that is in charge of the world of the mind, where everything that is to take place here must first take place there.

The left brain hemisphere, which is used when a person is functioning at twenty vibrations per second, the beta level, is in charge of the world of the material body, the earthly plane, the physical world.

Jesus' prayer "The Lord' s Prayer" confirms that. "Thy will be done on earth as it has been done in heaven."

To be more times right than wrong you and I must first do whatever has to be done with the right brain hemisphere while the brain functions at ten vibrations, that is, at alpha. Then it will happen in the world of the physical, on earth as it is in heaven. And you and I will be called geniuses.

I am sure you are beginning to understand why it is necessary to talk in two languages to explain how to become a genius. It is rooted in the spiritual while it manifests in the physical.

Science has it easy. It can explain what happens in the physical using English, if not exactly plain English. But to discuss its origins in the spiritual, there are no words. Language is for this visible physical existence, not for its invisible source. The closest we can come is the terms used in the Bible.

This "turns off" many people. It does not sound scientific. But in this manual on how to give birth to a genius and to train a child to be a genius, Biblical words are scientific. It is an extension of science into what has not traditionally been its territory - the creative realm.

So, when you read "The Kingdom of Heaven," it is not some nebulous mirage, but a real place in which you arrive when you follow a simple scientific procedure. And when you read "Jesus," it is not some Sunday school lesson, but a real scientific teacher who gave me the directions I needed to find my own way through brain neurons, brain waves, and brain hemispheres into the methodology to create a genius.

For more than a thousand years, science and religion have been at each other's throats. Each has scorned the other. But as scientists have probed to the very depths of the atom and to the far reaches of outer space, they have been confronted with more and more evidence that points to there being a spiritual basis for the material world. As they moved from Newtonian physics to Einsteinian physics and the quantum theory, they were faced with having to change more than one previously accepted paradigm.

Here is one of these major changes in science's concept of the universe: You and I are not human beings trying to be spiritual. You and I are spiritual beings trying to be human. How can we expect to be geniuses, if we ignore the spiritual? In fact, the doorway to being a genius is the restoration of our spiritual connection - the right brain hemisphere.

I have spent many years investigating and researching the reason why humans continue to make the same mistakes over and over. Here are ten typical ones just for starters:

We make war and kill each other.

We destroy each other in the name of the creator.

We distrust one another.

We take from one another.

People still break all of the Ten Commandments.

We abuse one another.

We seek escape in alcohol and drugs.

We li e and cheat to obtain power over others.

We exploit our natural resources.

We poison the environment we share.



The more we suffer by these mistakes, the more we appear prone to repeat them.

The more you are monopolized by the physical world and ignore your true spiritual identity, the more you are sure to have a life marred by wrong decisions, unwanted conditions, unpredictable people, and nerve-wrecking stress.

Humans are fortunate to have conscious access to their spiritual source. Animals do not have this. They function instinctively, automatically, controlled by their genes.

Humans who do not recognize their spirituality, act like animals. An animal usually takes care of itself and its immediate family. It has its territory. Other families may not enter it. Spiritual humans take care of themselves, their families, and also others like themselves.

Humans who do not recognize their spirituality need a visible means of support in order to survive. Humans who do recognize their spiritual nature have not only a visible means of support but also an invisible means of support.

Some call this luck. They meet the right people. They are in the right place at the right time. They have meaningful dreams, flashes of insight, and unique guessing-correctly ability. If this is luck, then everybody can be lucky. Here is how:

Learn how to relax your body and mind, so that your brain waves have slowed down to ten cycles per second.

While relaxed, learn how to visualize or imagine what needs to be changed, healed, or corrected; then visualize or imagine it happening; and finally visualize or imagine that situation perfect - just as it needs to be.

How do you learn to relax and mentally picture in these ways?

I have heard that in China, Chi-Kung masters are trained to do this. The training takes four years.

In the United States and more than 99 other countries, there is a training that takes only four days. It is called the Silva Method.

The Silva Method appears to be similar to Jesus' Keys to Enter the Kingdom of Heaven. Both methods appear to produce the same results. One develops geniuses, the other develops prophets and wise men.

What are prophets and wise me n ? They are people who use their minds in a special manner. What is a genius? A genius is also a person who uses his or her mind in a special manner.

People who have not learned to use the Kingdom of Heaven, the alpha dimension, never think about what to do with their life span while on this planet. They do not seem to be aware that we were sent here on an assignment - albeit temporary.

Prophets, wise men, and geniuses have an active right brain hemisphere. They realize they are on a mission - each in quite a specialized way but all to help make this a better world to live in.

Left brain thinkers have an inactive right brain hemisphere. They work less. They are less constructive and creative. They do not function selflessly or for the common good. They appear to be here on the vacation of a lifetime - a vacation that can often turn into bankruptcy, divorce, lawsuits, foreclosure, accident, and illness.

I know a man who held one responsible position after another - not because he was in demand, but because he could not hold a job. He was married three times because he could not hold a wife. Then he found what he thought was his answer: bourbon. He drank himself into an early grave. Can you tell me which he was - a right brain or left brain thinker?

Ninety percent of the people on the planet are left-brain thinkers and only 10 percent are right-brain thinkers. The 10 percent are the ones who solve the problems that the 90 percent create.

At that rate will we ever catch up!

No wonder so many things are going wrong. Ninety percent of the people don't know any better!

Millions of people are wasting valuable time watching ball games as a way of relieving the stress that they don't know how to cope with. For them, the only escape from their problems is by associating with the hometown team. But these people aren't accomplishing anything. They are just watching other people do things. And the things that the athletes are doing are not helping to solve the world's problems.

There's nothing wrong with sports and athletics, as long as things are kept in proper proportion. I enjoy watching sports. But I'm not obsessed with it like so many people are. I don't get depressed if my team loses the championship. I don't feel like I'm a failure if my team loses.

We've got things out of proportion. People pay more money to entertainers - to boxers, ball players, stage and movie stars - than to scientists who are saving lives and alleviating suffering.

Again, there is nothing wrong with using entertainment for relaxation and to enjoy the beauty of the world. I was trained as an opera singer. I enjoy singing, and I enjoy listening to opera. But I don't let that interfere with my work of solving problems.

In the area of sex, left brain people have not yet understood that they should stick to one partner only. Sticking to only one partner prevents the spread of venereal diseases, including AIDS.

The prophets and wise men, the geniuses and the right brain thinkers are free of all of these problems because they function within the Kingdom of Heaven, the alpha dimension of ten vibrations per second. They function within God's righteousness.

In order to explain what could have happened to ninety percent of the people who have become left brain thinkers, we need to know how a human being evolves.

It is said that the biological body evolves in seven year cycles, and that the peak of life is seven times seven, or forty-nine years.

During the first seven cycles we are gaining. Those are called anabolic cycles. The next seven cycles after that, which come after age forty-nine, we are losing. They are called catabolic cycles.

When a human being is conceived and still in the mother's womb, the brain's electrical activity indicates that life has entered the embryo. If electrical activity ceases in a human brain, that person, regardless of age or body size, is considered to be dead.

Since the brain's electrical activity is the key to eventual right or left brain activity, we can do something about a human being's future mental ability even while in the embryo stage.

The parents must first know how to control their own brain's functioning. They can then affect the child's brain activity even before birth.

This is a big mouthful for the reader to handle. But there is mor e. The unit of life energy - or soul, if you prefer - that is attracted at the time of conception to enter the embryo can also be affected by the parents.

This is not conjecture. This is proven fact. It is probably one of the most important facts of life available to us.

In this first part, we will cover the step-by-step procedure for parents to follow to make their existing child a genius. In the second part of the book, we will cover the step-by-step procedure that begins before conception.

The product of both parts is: A genius. It is an offspring that is not only the perfect child but one that will be off on an early start to not only make a better living, but to make this whole world better for living.





Chapter 2

WHAT WE CAN DO WHEN WE CONTROL THE MIND

My colleague on this book, Bob Stone, tells me that when he went to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT.) to obtain his engineering degree a half century ago, consciousness was not recognized. Scientists considered it to be non-existent and no research was done on it at that prestigious university.

For several decades things did not change much. Astronaut Edgar Mitchell, who got his doctorate at MIT, wanted to conduct research in consciousness when he returned from the Moon. But there was no on-going activity in that field, except for the work that we were doing that had already moved into practical applications by that time, so Mitchell had to form the Institute of Noetic Sciences in order to proceed.

The fact that consciousness is but a frontier of science today and less known and understood than even the far reaches of outer space speaks volumes about the intimidation it has continued to be for science. This is because it cannot be detected with the senses or with instrumentation and so it cannot be me as u r ed nor can its existence be proven through direct physical means.

Consciousness and our conscious experiences are personal - that is, subjective. This is a serious obstacle to scientists. The scientific method requires data to be objective - public and repeatable.

There is a second obstacle. the idea that you or I can choose and thus make things happen collides head-on with existing scientific paradigms that see this as a deterministic universe. Consciousness just does not fit into the present scientific view of things.

So here we have two concrete concepts that create an effective barrier to us finding out more about what our consciousness can do.

I myself ignored these barriers and was in turn ignored by other research scientists. Even though my research has been successful beyond all my early purposes, I am still ignored. However, all that may now be changing. Here is why.

Quantum physics shows that something can be in two places at the same time. Does that fit the so-called scientific view? Energy research shows that the consciousness of the researcher can affect the outcome of an experiment. Another mis-fit.

As science probes beyond the smallest particles of the atom, they see intelligence at work. Some of the bolder scientists are hypothesizing that space is filled with conscious intelligence, and they are beginning to prove this hypothesis to be so.

Science used to sweep such non-fitting data under the table and forget it. Now their own consciousness is asserting its reality and they cannot ignore it. They are forced to accept both the consciousness of the subject and their own.

So gradually subjective experience is being accepted as a data base especially if it is potentially sharable and repeatable.

What does this mean to you and me? It means we are at last on the verge of a breakthrough in knowledge about consciousness, and how it can be used to further humanity's welfare.

But I broke through decades ago. And as any Silva trained graduate will confirm, maybe the professional scientists can afford to ignore me but you cannot. Millions of people are benefitting from our work every day.

Control your mind so you can focus your consciousness and here are some of the immediate benefits awaiting you - not in the decades ahead, but today !

You can picture in your mind what you want to happen to help yourself or others and it will happen.

You can communicate with another person without speaking a single word.

You can help the healing of another person at a distance.

You can use your mind to improve sleep, heighten energy, get rid of headaches, and heighten resistance.

You can improve memory and accelerate learning.

You can put an end to unwanted behavior such as your smoking or overeating.

You can enhance desired behavior such as personality strengths, skills, abilities, and talents.

You can set goals and reach them.

You can profit from dependable intuition.

You can make giant strides as a successful problem solver.

You can tap the source of originality, inspiration, and creativity.



And that's just for starters.

As millions of Silva trained graduates move into higher positions of responsibility in business, society, and government, it is inevitable that major innovations and improvements must take place.

Governments will be for the people not at the people.

Diplomats will be more successful in working for peace.

Management and labor will realize that they are on the same team.

Prisons will empty as crime, substance abuse, and violence will no longer be palatable to their former purveyors.

Businesspeople will become more efficient having greater

problem-solving ability and dependable intuition.

Present threats to the planet, its resources and wildlife will be de-fused.

People will be able to project into the future and head off problems.

People will be more humane to each other and to every form of life.

Students will learn faster and easier using both hemispheres of the brain.

Graduates will enter the job market and gravitate naturally to the best job for them.

Parents will be able to choose their children before conception and heighten mental ability after birth.



Enter the genius.

By following the directions in this book, the last item on this look into the future will become part of your present. Undoubtedly1 there will be books written on all of these impending benefits to humanity. But meanwhile you can create a genius. And, if you can, you must. Humanity's survival is in the balance.

To create a genius, you yourself must become bicameral in your thinking. That is, you must be able to use both brain hemispheres. One way to do this is to take the four-day Silva training. It is available throughout the United States and in one hundred other countries. If you cannot locate it near you, contact Silva International, Inc., P O Box 2249, Laredo, Texas 7804-2249, www.silvamethod.com .

You can also give yourself the training. This takes much longer and is seldom as successful because you are not a certified Silva trainer. Step-by-step instructions to activate more of your mind without the help of a Silva trainer appear in Appendix A.

May I take a moment to brag about the Silva Method. This is not my own self-evaluation, but these are the facts and what thousands of graduates tell their family and friends.

The Silva Method is based on decades of sound scientific research in the mind and its manifestations of intelligence. Its methods are simple and its life-long benefits comprehensive. It has been effectively administered to millions of men, women, and children around the world in all economic, social, and ethnic backgrounds, and ages six to ninety-six.

When given to students, the Silva Method training has provided new tools for study. These have increased levels of concentration, heightened self-esteem, raised IQs, and improved grades.

Employees of major corporations have used the training to improve the skills of key personnel among executives, middle management, and sales. Included are employees of RCA Records, Mary Kay Cosmetics, and major automotive companies.

Illustrious graduates include Eddie Albert; Alexis Smith; Susan Strasburg; Vicki Carr; orchestra leader Doc Severinson; Shakti Gawain, author of Creative Visualization ; Wayne Dwyer, author of Real Magic ; and Richard Bach, author of Jonathan Livingston Seagull .

Shakti Gawain writes in her book Living in the Light these comments: "The most important technique I learned in that course was the basic technique of creative visualization, relaxing deeply and then picturing a desired goal in your mind exactly the way you would like it to be.... We all do create our own reality."

You are about ready to create your reality. You will not only create an offspring who is a genius, you will become one yourself to the extent that you wish to. You will improve your health, your marriage, your economic level, and your spiritual level.

If you heart is beating faster and harder in anticipation of an improved life in every respect, you can imagine how I felt as years of research began to pay off in lives changed, peace of mind attained, and geniuses created.

The mind and its focused conscious imagery has come of age.

Miss C. R. of Long Island, New York, relaxed, imagined herself in the new house she longed to be in and in five and a half months moved in.

Mr. L.M. of Cincinnati, Ohio, was not happy in his job. He relaxed and visualized himself in the kind of work he enjoyed. Three weeks later he was approached by the personnel director of a large comp a n y. He received the perfect offer and accepted it.

Mr. and Mr s. R. D. of Providence, Rhode Island, wanted a son. But not just any son - a son that "could make a real contribution to society, perhaps a genius. So they relaxed and... but I'm getting ahead of myself.

Scientists are moving closer to removing two obstacles to consciousness research. One, they are more ready to accept experiences, whether objective or subjective, as valid input data. Two, they are more ready to accept phenomena for study even though they violate accepted scientific laws.

Scientists are becoming more liberated. But they have a long way to go. Take health. We in Silva have been using the mind to heal the body for more than twenty-five years. The medical profession is just beginning to recognize a mind-body connection. They realize that it is the mind that makes us sick, largely through stress, and they realize the mind can make us well. Are they adopting this in medical practice? Rarely. They are waiting for laboratory researchers to locate the mind-body connection in neural, chemical, or other physical means.

Meanwhile, another scientist in San Diego, California, is proving time and time again that human cells removed from the donor's body and electronically monitored, react to the donor’s emotions even when miles away. Cleve Backster calls his discovery "primary perception."

I can't explain this phenomenon. But I can use it. And I can teach you to use it.

The mind extends beyond the brain. It encompasses the whole body and well beyond the body. It is joined with other minds, not in a physical way, but in a metaphysical way - in a way that we can call spiritual.

When you relax and use mental imagery, you activate the right brain hemisphere, which is our mind's connection to the spiritual or creative realm. Once so connected, your knowledge is no longer limited to what you have learned in school and so far in life. Your knowledge is unlimited. You can know things you have no way of knowing.

In short, you are clairvoyant. You can do "cases."

The word "case" is used when a clairvoyant is diagnosing a problem, looking to see what has happened. Once the clairvoyant has found and described what the problem is all about, the situation is called a case.

When the clairvoyant is going to work on correcting the problem, then the case becomes a project.

We have noticed that every time a clairvoyant uses his or her clairvoyant faculties to solve problems, those clairvoyant faculties get better. This is the same response that you get in other skills: The more you practice, the better you get.

Conversely the clairvoyant faculty atrophies when not used. This reminds me of the story about the father and the talents that he gave to his sons. Those who did not use them, lost them. Regardless of how many talents a person gets, he must use them to make them grow. If you do not use them, they will eventually waste away. Even what little you have, you will lose. It is the same with clairvoyance.

The strengthening of the clairvoyant faculty while relaxed, that is, within the Kingdom of Heaven is like saying that we are building something within a spiritual, non-physical, subjective, me n t al, alpha dimension. This is a dimension where what we build is our very own, something that no one can ever steal.

The individual who learns to use the right brain hemisphere and develop clairvoyance is comp a r e d to the individual mentioned by Jesus who built his house on rock. Even when the rain fell and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that house, it did not fall because it was built on a solid foundation.

Create a genius and you are creating a person with similar strength and unassailibility.

Anyone who hear s the Silva message about developing the use of the right brain hemisphere and does not do it, is one who build his house on sand. When the rain and floods and winds beat against that home it is destroyed.

Using only the left brain hemisphere to think with is comparable to the individual who builds on sand. Learning to use the right brain hemisphere to think with is comparable to the individual who builds on rock.

What is a child genius like once it is conceived by its clairvoyant parents and raised as a genius according to the directions given in the chapters ahead?

Such a child, when in the infancy stage, does not suffer from colic, rashes, or other pesky problems and so is less apt to have frequent crying spells.

The desire to be changed or to be fed is communicated silently to the parents. The infant soon sleeps through the night.

As the child grows it is far less susceptible to the usual childhood diseases such as mumps. measles. and chicken pox. Immunizations are not necessary. The baby's behavior is less destructive - there being an absence of throwing things, temper tantrums, and destructiveness. Instead, the baby begins to be creative in play habits and to show intellectual curiosity. In its early years, the child is usually free of nightmares, bed wetting, thumb sucking, and other such problems with which other parents must cope.

When reaching kindergarten age, the child genius will be a year or two ahead of its peers. School authorities should not hesitate to place it in first or second grade. They will recognize the child to be superior because of its immediate understanding of what it is asked to do and its more mature attitude and behavior as compared to other children of that age who are usually hyper-active, irritable, and manipulative. This child is more independent and has a lengthy attention span.

Reading, writing, and mathematics skills seem to be already existent in the genius child. Education, a word based on the Latin “educo ,” to lead or bring forth, becomes exactly that, instead of what it has been transformed into - a stuffing in.

The genius child is likely to resist peer pressure in its behavior. It does not succumb to television addiction. There is no experimentation with tobacco, alcohol, drugs, or sex. It is free of the devil-may-care attitude that leads today's youngsters into minor

crimes, cutting classes, and eventual drop-out.

The genius who is now a teenager is a serious human being who looks forward to doing the job it knows it has come here to. It wastes no time acquiring the necessary knowledge, skills, and experience needed to do that job or be proficient in that profession.

What about social skills? Educators recognize their importance and are loathe to permit acceleration in academic matters lest it cause later problems. But the genius teenager is a genius in social skills as well. Entering college three or four years earlier does not place it at a social disadvantage. Having naturally used more of the mind all of these growing up years, the young genius is intuitively aware of the skills, interests, and maturity in the people he or she contacts.

The young genius earns a doctorate at age 15 and begins a career and a family soon after.

Parts of this scenario are theoretical. The rest is proven by actual cases. Even the part that is theoretical is based on at least partial successes.

When I found that relaxation slowed the brain waves and gave one more control over what were assumed to be uncontrollable physical functions, I did not spend ten years trying to find out why. Instead, I used it. I used what I learned on my children to raise their marks in school. When I found that visualization and imagination at this relaxed level activated the right brain and produced clairvoyance, I did not spend ten years trying to find out why, I trained scores of volunteer s to become clairvoyants and to be able to look into the future to head off problems and to detect information miles away to solve problems.

Do you want to create a genius? Before you start, do you insist on a scientific explanation of what kind of energy is the energy of consciousness? Then you will have to await the findings of the psychotronic researchers. They have been studying this problem since they adopted that nomenclature in Monte Carlo in 1975.

Do you insist on knowing the mechanics of how the human mind can program, attract, and create? You've probably got an even longer wait. Do you insist on knowing just how a clairvoyant can transcend space and time? Or how help can be obtained seemingly from the other side? Or how intelligence can become super-human? Forget it. You will probably not live that long. Wait if you want.

The rest of you follow me.

Can you now see why it is useful to refer not only to scientific explanations but also to Biblical references and statements? In creating a genius, we are creating a human being that is much more closely connected to higher intelligence. Science has barely recognized a higher intelligence and, even so, uses different terms to describe it.

In Biblical days, humanity was closer to where it came from. It knew more about higher intelligence then than science knows now.

To me it seems as if Jesus was explaining the benefits of being a prophet. It is one who can foresee what can happen in the future and select the best thing.

Now what is a prophet for our own understanding? The dictionary says that to prophesy is "to utter, foretell or predict under divine influence, inspiration and direction, a future event."

A prophet is one who can prophesy. The dictionary also calls prophesy divination, which is the act or art of knowing the future or that which is hidden or unknown. In other words, a clever or correct guess.

Notice the "or that which is hidden or unknown." Here let us review what Luke in Chapter 12 Verse 2 and 3 said that Jesus said:

"But there is nothing concealed that will not be disclosed and nothing hidden that will not be made known. For what you. have said in darkness will be said in the light ; and what you have whispered in the inner chambers will be preached on the house tops."

Matthew, in Chapter 23 Verse 34 says that Jesus said, "Behold I send you prophets and wise men and scribes.” There is no reason not to believe that Jesus had found the problems that humans were experiencing because they had not learned to use the right brain hemisphere to think with and thus to become intuitive, able to prophesy and head off problems.

Jesus must have developed a method of mental training to correct this problem. I believe that Jesus’ method of mind training was “The Keys to Enter the Kingdom of Heaven” that Jesus gave to Peter.

The Kingdom of Heaven is where God resides, or that which we call God when you go there. God communicates with you through the right intuitive hemisphere.

Luke says in Chapter 17 Verse 21 that Jesus said, "Neither will thy say 'Behold here it is,' or 'Behold there it is,' for behold the kingdom of God is within you."

Nowhere do we find information on how to develop clairvoyants or prophets or learn to prophesy. It seems as though someone hid or lost the Keys to Enter the Kingdom of Heaven.

The dictionary associates divination with the divine. The divine is something pertaining to what we call God. So when we are able to guess right more times than wrong we can then say that we are divinely inspired.

Divinely inspired means inspired by God. Inspired by God then means a connection with God. Anyone who desires to develop a connection with God must develop the means to guess right, to prophesy.

So, if you want to understand what you are doing as you begin to create a genius, ancient wisdom goes further than modern science.

"I have done what the Silva Method prescribed,” said one expectant mother - expectant of a genius that is. "I have six more months to wait. There is no litmus test to detect whether we have succeeded. But I have a quiet, peaceful feeling inside that all is well. To me that's better than a lab test. I trust my gut feeling."

When Benjamin Franklin began his investigation of lightning that led to his now famous kite and key experiments, he was accused by religionists of tampering with God's realm. In creating a genius are we overstepping our boundaries? Are we doing right? Or wrong?

There is nothing in our Constitution, our laws, or even in our education - science or otherwise - that tells us whether the answer is right or wrong. So what do we do?

We guess.

I have guessed that the answer is: It is right to create a genius. Mind you, mine is not an ordinary guess. When a left brain person guesses, he or she might as well flip a coin. When a person who also has the right brain going guesses - as I do - that person has help from a larger mind - a higher intelligence.

When we are Godly inspired, our guess is right. When we are not godly inspired, our guess is governed by chance. It can be wrong.

When a guess is right we are Godly inspired. When we guess wrong we are not Godly inspired. So wrong is not desired by God, only right is desired by God.

God being the creator, it is easy to understand right from wrong: Right is to create and wrong is to destroy.

Alleviating suffering is constructive; it is right. Causing suffering is destructive; it is wrong.

What all humans should be doing on planet earth is being constructive and doing what is right. For humanity to survive on planet earth, humanity must establish a connection with God. To be able to establish a connection with God, you have to learn to use your intuitive right brain hemisphere, so that you will be correct by guessing right, because you are Godly inspired.

This is the main reason why we need to learn how to develop in our children the use of the right brain hemisphere, so that they will all be prophets, wise men, geniuses, clairvoyants. They will be Godly inspired to correct all past, present and future problems that plague humanity on our planet.

One key to right or wrong is: Does it interfere with life, or reinforce life? If a decision reinforces life, it must be right.

When you activate the right hemisphere, you improve the ability of your mind to affect your body. You can relieve stress which when prolonged can be fatal. You can stimulate your immune system to reverse a disease.

You can change abnormality into normality. All of this, and more, can quickly add up to more years of your life and more life in your years.

Right or wrong? Right. So, make the decision to create a genius.

There may be an entity out there right now waiting for your decision to proceed. Or the child now in your family may have inert genius within him or her waiting to manifest, as many children do.

First step: Activate your right brain by taking the four-day Silva training, or by giving yourself such a training by following the directions in Appendix A. While training yourself you may read this book to see what lies ahead, but before doing any of the procedural steps, you must await your completion of the self-training.

If you are already a Silva trained graduate, get ready, get set, go.,

A quarter century ago, I started creating geniuses. A Silva Method Florida lecturer and his wife, Paul and Noel Fransella, began to follow the basic parts of this embryonic program. Since then they have had three sons, Paul, now nineteen, Michael, now seventeen, and Anthony, now thirteen.

This is Paul's account of the pieces of the program he has been able to implement and the dramatic results:

Right from the time the boys were babies we read to them only positive stories that we had first read ourselves while they were on our laps so that they would always associate reading with good feelings. That has borne fruit and all three are not only excellent readers but also love reading and now buy their own books. We feel it also gave them a jump start on their schoolwork also.

We tried to shield them from any negative influences in their environment for the first five or six years of their lives - that included not letting them have too much contact with other kids who were negative. Fortunately, most of the adults with whom they came in contact were Silva Method graduates, so we didn't have to worry about them. Our psychologist friends would keep warning us that the boys would be socially mal-adjusted because of it, but in fact the opposite has turned out to be true and all three boys have been natural leaders and more popular than the other kids.

We did not have a television or video in the house during those early years, nor did we let them hear any negative music.

Just before they went to sleep and just as they were waking up we would whisper in their ears positive impressions such as, “You are a genius. You can do anything you set your mind to so long as it doesn't hurt you or anyone else or cause a problem for you or anyone else."

Paul was christened in the Orlando church with José Silva there as his godfather. I saw José programming the water that the minister sprinkled on Paul's head.

Before Noel and I conceived the boys we would get into our consciousness what sort of child we thought the world needed, which was for a "happy saint." So far they all have turned out happy, and the saint part seems dormantly awaiting the right time to materialize.

We were careful with the diet of all three of our boys and kept them from sugar and processed foods. Noel breast fed them all until they were ready to stop. Today Paul does not like cream and the other two boys never buy candy and only take ice cream about once a week. Paul - now nineteen this week - drinks beer sometimes with his friends. Mike and Anthony have tasted wine but don't drink. None of them has tried drugs.

We have always tried to teach by example rather than preach didactically. We also have shown them the Schewitzerian Reverence for life even to carrying little bugs out of the house rather than squashing them. Nor have we ever had bug poison in our homes or any other kind of poison. Nor in our gardens either. We have also tried very hard to teach them ethics and values such as to respect the rights of others and indeed all life from whatever kingdom. As a direct consequence of this they have never killed anything consciously to my knowledge nor tried to harm anything for any reason.

Nevertheless, in other ways they are quite "normal" boys and love jokes and humor (which we have always given an abundance of by showing them old comedy movies such as W. C. Fields, Bob Hope, etc.). They really like Monty Python’s Flying Circus and Benny Hill, the Marx Brothers, and the Three Stooges.

All three boys have maintained an A average throughout school. Paul just graduated with honors from Winter Park High and was president of the French Honors Society at Bishop Moore High. Noel and I home schooled them for many years using the Calvert School system. Anthony is still being home schooled.

Noel does the math and English and social studies while I take care of the sciences.

Mike goes into his senior year this fall and was first in the school of about 2,000 this year. We are pretty sure he will make school valedictorian when he graduates. He concentrated all his attention on what he experiences and makes very strong impressions with eidetic memory. His reasoning powers are formidable and he has always been on the school debating team, quiz team, and so on. And he helped them win local and state contests to boot. Right now he wants to be a lawyer. Paul has a three year Air Force ROTC scholarship to the University of Central Florida and will major in Environmental Engineering. (He was a U.S. Naval Academy candidate and had passed the medicals and been accepted, all but the Congressional sponsorship, but did not follow through because he felt the discipline was too fierce.)

We have brought all three boys up respecting their rights as human beings from the start and never imposing our personalities on them just because we were bigger, older, or had more power. As a result, they all have much self-respect and are fiercely independent. They are all totally unafraid of anyone and will fight at the drop of a hat to defend their rights.

I have seen Paul take on three kids his own size. He emerged with bruises and a bad black eye but with the respect of the whole student body.

Anthony is the shortest but also the strongest and most solid of the three and is as courageous as the lion of his birth sign, and as stubborn as a mule.

Mike is the biggest boned and now about six feet tall, as is Paul. Mike is the heaviest at around 160 pounds while Paul is the most athletically built and muscular at around 150. All three have been going to Kung Fu classes three times a week for four years and Paul has won a number of contests and gotten trophies. Paul gets top marks without trying in math and the sciences and physics although he claims not to be very interested in them.

But he is also very imaginative and creative.

The boys are good pals and often cooperate on projects and play. They love chess, backgammon, Trivial Pursuit, cards, Gilbert & Sullivan, rock, opera, rap, and much more. They like riddles, rhymes, science fiction, and can quote most of Tolkien by heart. They like Dungeons & Dragons and all wizards and other world scenarios.

Basically, I guess you'd have to say that they are normal boys for their ages in the sense that there is nothing retarded in their development. But they are not "normal" inasmuch as they are all balanced; self-assured; and mentally, physically, and emotionally above average and with better values, morals, and ethics than their peers. They are also "cleaner living" with higher self-standards. And of course, they are all high achievers and successful.

Considering that this represents only part of the program offered to parents on the pages ahead, it is an admiral accomplishment, one recognized and appreciated by the school's teachers and administrators. Letters like these have been commonplace:

"It is my distinct pleasure to congratulate you on Paul's attainment of High Honors for the second marking period.

"As a parent you deserve to be proud and take pleasure in this accomplishment. It is apparent that you are providing the needed encouragement and support for outstanding academic achievement. I praise you and thank you.

"On behalf of the entire Bishop Moore High School community, our sincere congratulations to both you and your child on attaining this honor."





Chapter 3

HOW THIS HAS BEEN THE CREATOR'S INTENT

Planet earth is a creative problem solving laboratory. Humankind itself is an experiment. The creator has many such laboratories and many such experiments.

What is the creator seeking? All this space and all these forms of life - what is in the making?

We cannot know, but we can make an intelligent guess. We can start by eliminating some of the goals that are quite likely not worthy of the creator's infinite intelligence.

I'd like to eliminate such products of planet earth's civilization as: highest paid football quarter back, fastest racehorse, and largest ocean liner. Somehow, those kinds of sensational attainments don't seem to fit into the cosmic scheme of things. Nor do packaged cereals, automobiles, or cigarettes.

The creator has to expect more from humanity than this. We are created, says the good book, in his image. If you think all you have to do is look in the mirror and you will see the creator, don't waste your time. The image of God, the creator, must be you, the creation. This is simple left brain logic. It means you and I are supposed to be co-creators with the creator, continuing to perfect this microcosm called earth, as the creator continues to perfect the macrocosm called the universe.

You and I did not come easily to the creator. Many a try failed. Species of life came and went. Even when we did arrive we were a mess. We were as bad as the animals that preceded us. Anthropologists still find it hard to place us very far above some of them. We continue to ravage the planet's mineral riches, harm the flora, and destroy the fauna. Instead of creating a better planet on which to live, we create more and more ways to kill each other.

I personally believe that the creator may be on the verge of letting humanity move towards its own extinction so he can start over with another creative idea. All of my life's work has been devoted to making him change his mind and to give us another chance.

I do not want to force you to hear my personal beliefs. Many are contained in Robert B. Stone’s book, José Silva: The Man Who Tapped the Secrets of the Human Mind and the Method He Used . Maybe they will inspire you to consider these matters yourself and maybe by such personal thought you will be convinced that it is your duty to create a genius.

There must be a hierarchy of intelligence in the universe. Some scientists see a global brain that devises unique ways to help correct our abuses to the planet. Our solar system may have a somewhat higher level of intelligence, the galaxy even higher, all of the galaxies perhaps highest intelligence which we call God. The higher we go, the better things are. It's down here on earth, that the level of intelligence permeating life must be elevated, if we are to survive.

We need to create more geniuses.

We need to raise the level of what Jung called the collective unconscious and what English botanist Rupert Sheldrake now calls the morphogenetic field of intelligence.

We have been created in the image of God. We need to live up to our image.

Continued left brain dominated thinking will only carry us further along the way toward being rubber stamped by the creator as "obsolete."

By activating our right brain and becoming centered in our thinking, we put ourselves on the creator's team. We live up to our image. As we solve problems, the right hemisphere acts as our connection to the rest of intelligence - to higher intelligence and to highest intelligence. Our solutions and decisions vault to a more lofty-in-wisdom level. We become co-creators.

The more problems you solve, the more creator-like or god-like you are. The more you become on the creator's side and, of course, the more the creator is on your side.

So, using the simple methodologies of the Silva Method to create a genius is helping the creator. Going to the alpha brain frequency, identifying the problem, mentally picturing a solution replacing the problem, returning to beta brain frequency and seeing it happen in the material world just as you pictured it, is a spiritual act.

Jesus exhorted us to such acts but we were not listening. He gave us the "Keys to Enter the Kingdom Within," but somehow they seem to have gotten mis p lac ed. Thanks to science, we have them again.

Jesus used a different language than we use today. Even that language has evolved in its multiple translations. Nowhere in the Bible do we read, "Go to alpha." But Jesus said, "Become as little children." Little children are at alpha most of the time.

Nor do we see the words, "Relax physically and mentally." Instead, Jesus is quoted as saying, "Go to the Kingdom of Heaven within." We are not told by the Bible that Jesus said to then mentally picture to health, set goals, and solve problem. But we are told that Jesus said, "Function within God's righteousness." The Bible does not tell us that what we mentally picture at alpha will come true. But we are told that Jesus said, "And all things will be done unto you."

All things will be done - even the arrival in the womb of the soul of a genius.

Are you ready to begin? Thank you for saying yes, but I must tell you that there is still some preparatory work we need to do. I won1t cater to your curiosity and spell out exactly what that work is; let's just do it. I promise that before this chapter is over, that work will be done, and you will be ready to start the greatest creative act of your life.

Creativity has not been ignored entirely by our left brain dominated educational system. Seldom is the subject covered within the regular curriculum. More often it is a later seminar or symposium.

Let's look at a typical creativity seminar and see something about its approaches. One that has been taking place in New York State for forty years now covers much the same ground as it did years ago. It gives emphasis to leadership training, facilitation skills, teamwork, decision making skills, establishing action plans, and so forth. What would we prefer to see? Attention to right and left brain job descriptions; relaxation techniques; desire, expectation, and beliefs; visualization and imagination; mental programming.

My point is that education must shake off its monolithic giant image and be willing to add new right brain doctrines to its left brain rut.

Wait a minute. Do I see correctly? At one creativity symposium, the principal speaker was Dr. Edgar D. Mitchell, Apollo XIV astronaut and sixth man on the moon. You remember I mentioned him earlier. His talk was entitled, "Creativity and the Global Paradigm Shift.”

He had the courage to point out to educators that the Newtonian view of a mechanistic universe is now replaced by a view of the universe as being participatory "where Basic Consciousness is a ubiquitous, every present organizing principle."

Hallelujah! We are getting there.

You understand, of course, that Mitchell was talking about you - your consciousness, as part of the whole Consciousness. He was emphasizing the profound influence of human intention and creativity and how we are part of a larger intelligence that we can tap into.

He does not tell us how to do this. But that is my specialty and that is exactly what we will cover in these pages. Meanwhile, have you scheduled the Silva Method training or have you started to train yourself using the instructions in Appendix A?

The Institute of Noetic Sciences founded by Mitchell has been fortunate in having as its recent president Willis Harmon, philosophical scientist and author of Global Mind Change - the Promise of the Last Years of the Twentieth Century . (Institute of Noetic Sciences, 101 San Antonio Rd., Petaluma, CA 94952, USA, www.noetic.org ). In discussing creativity, Harmon states, "Limits to the creative/intuitive mind arise from unconscious beliefs. In general, its performance can be enhanced by intention, expectation, trust, and belief in the efficacy of the deep mind."

Do you have trust and belief in the efficacy of your deep mind? If you do, and you have completed the Silva Method training, you are ready to create a genius. On the other hand, if your trust and belief in yourself is less than total I am going to tell you things about yourself during the balance of this chapter that will have you sitting on the edge of your chair.

For instance, when you finish the four-day Silva Method training, you do cases. One student gives you the name, address, age, and sex of somebody who is sick and known by that student but not by you. You are at deep alpha. Here is a typical account of what happens.

You: He is about five feet six, grey hair, glasses, and partially bald.

Partner: That's absolutely correct.

You: I'm scanning the body to locate the illness. My attention is attracted to the stomach area. Oh, my, there are several stones in the gall bladder.

Partner: You are right on. This person is in the hospital with a gall bladder attack. Now, what can you do to correct the problem?

Your hand reaches out and you appear to be breaking something with your fingers.

Partner: What are you doing now?

You: I'm crushing those gall bladder stones in my fingers. They are dissolving in the bile. There, situation normal. I'm coming out.

A few seconds later, you open your eyes.

Your partner shows you the case card where the information was written down.

Partner: Now it is my turn to do a case.

With that your partner goes to level and you give your partner a case in the same manner.

Later, or the next day, your partner calls his friend at the hospital. "No operation necessary," he repeats, "I passed the gall bladder stones."

Several hours are spent by the graduates in doing cases. The success rate is stunning. Graduates, although they expected to succeed to some extent, are astounded and ecstatic. One of my old-time colleagues Harry McKnight would then address his new graduates like this, referring to the cases: "When you projected your mind any distance - and some of today's cases were thousands of miles away - you were exhibiting the quality of being infinite. When you went forward or backward in time - as some of you did here today - that's the quality of being eternal. When you knew something that you had no way of knowing - as all of you did - omniscient. When you changed unwanted conditions - again as all of you did - omnipotent. Infinite, eternal, omniscient, omnipotent! Who are you? Who indeed are you?"

You could hear a pin drop as students contemplated that they were really god-like.

For the past decade or two, educators have become aware of the importance of self-esteem in students, teachers have gone to self-esteem workshops where they have learned how to "facilitate" rather than "educate." They have come back to their classes with a new respect for positive attitudes. Students were not to be scolded or put down. They were to be encouraged and built up.

Today, the attitude of teachers towards their students shows the results of this new attitude. Students in general have an increased feeling of self-worth. I applaud this.

But, in the same breath, I condemn it.

It is but a small step in the right direction. If educators were to recognize the special-ness of the right brain hemisphere and educate this part of the brain to the same degree as the other, self-esteem would not only take care of itself, but would be elevated to new heights. Students would not only recognize themselves as being worthy human beings, but god-like.

In Part II of this book, you will be augmenting the school system with a new parental responsibility: Helping your child to become his or her true god-like self. This is a hard job if you don't believe it or if you don't see yourself also as god-like. That is why you are asked to take the Silva Method training first so that you can know your own incredible abilities.

Let me tell you about yourself.

You can use your mind to make yourself well. Medical records are now brimming with cases of people with the right attitudes and mental skills recovering from what are commonly thought of as terminal situations.

You can use your mind to end some life-long enmity you might have with someone and transform it into a 1ife-1ong friendship.

You can use your mind to find your way out of an apparent Catch 22 business dilemma and change it into a profit making business coup.

You can use your mind to attract the right person with whom to enter a permanent, fulfilling romantic relationship.

You can use your mind to acquire some material thing of substance now unattainable.

You can use your mind to reach an "impossible" goal.

You can use your mind to acquire information about matters thousands of miles distant.

You can use your mind to change your own personality traits or. habitual behavior.

You can use your mind to look back into the past or well into the future.

You can use your mind to attract to your side the very personable to help you out of a difficult situation.

You can use your mind to attract to you and your spouse the soul that will become a child genius.



Yes, I'm still talking about you.

For you to have self-esteem is for you to know that you can use your mind in all of these ways. It is indeed heavenly.

Do you learn to use your mind in these ways in elementary or secondary schools? No. In higher education? No. Where then?

In Higher Education. This means when you activate the right brain hemisphere, which is your Kingdom of Heaven, and by which you become god-like - infinite in your thinking, eternal in your thinking, omniscient in your thinking, omnipotent in your thinking.

The Kingdom of Heaven is a mental dimension that is within us and can be reached by mind training exercises.

Jesus associated this Kingdom with children. "For theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven," he said. And he advised people that in order to enter the Kingdom of Heaven, they should "become as little children." The Kingdom of Heaven, he said, is within each person.

Modern scientific research has now caught up with the message Jesus tried to teach two thousand years ago.

We have not been able to solve all of our problems through the use of the left brain hemisphere, which is associated with the outer (physical) world. We can de-limit our problem-solving ability and solve many more problems with the use of the right brain hemisphere, which is associated with the inner (spiritual) world.

In order to use the right brain hemisphere, you must lower your brain frequency until it is the same as that of a child. Anyone can learn to do this through the use of mind training exercises. When you are able to function - brain-wise - at the level of a ten year old child, then you can have full use of the Kingdom of Heaven.

This idea of creating geniuses came to me when I first read and thought about a couple of things that Jesus had said. He said, "Behold I send you prophets and wise men and scribes.” And in Chapter 14 Verse 12, he said that "He who believes in me and the works that I do, he also shall do, and greater than this he shall do.”

Believing in Jesus the way I do, and having such confidence that if He said it, then I should be able to do it, I decided to take this on as a project.

It was not easy locating the Kingdom of Heaven almost two thousand years after Jesus told us about it. It has taken me almost half a century of experimental research and scientific observation to come up with the procedure to create Geniuses. It was worth the effort. Millions of people in 103 countries and 29 different languages have benefitted from my efforts and expanded their problem-solving ability along with the other mental abilities mentioned before. This is very gratifying.

Now it is time for the next step: To give birth to geniuses (Part I) and to transform average intelligence in existing children into geniuses (Part II).

Note that I did not go about solving people's problems for them. I had no ambition to become a guru.

My life goal was to train people to bring out the guru in themselves.

I believe that most of what Jesus did was not to solve our problems, but to teach us a method through which we could solve our own problems as well as the problems of others.

After Jesus conceived his method, he called it "The Keys to the Kingdom of Heaven."

Since Jesus is not here with us on our earthly dimension, He cannot teach us like He did when He was with us. He is not here to demonstrate how to cure people and to raise the dead, as he did with Lazarus. He is not here to multiply the fishes and bread and show us how to feed the hungry and homeless.

Jesus is gone. Some people feel that this is our fault, the fault of humans, because we selected the murderer Barabas to save instead of saving Jesus from death. This was the only opportunity we had to show our appreciation for all the teachings that Jesus had given us. We could have chosen to save him. Talk about making big left brain mistakes!

Hypnotized by this physical left-brain world of limited time, limited space, limited love, and limited intelligence, we continue to make left-brain mistakes.

Jesus must have known what was coming, for the Bible says that He gave away His method of teaching people to become prophets and wise men.

The Bible says that He told Peter, "To you I give the keys to the Kingdom of Heaven so that whatever you do on earth shall have been done in heaven, and whatever you undo on earth shall have been undone in heaven."

This is the original version, not the altered version that is in the King James version of the Bible.

It clearly indicates that everything must first be done in heaven. This is consistent with the Lord's Prayer, which says, "thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven." What is done on earth is a copy of what is in heaven.

Heaven is a spiritual, non-physical, intangible, invisible to our sense of sight dimension or realm. It is the creative dimension.

Mind and human intelligence are also spiritual, non-physical, intangible, and invisible to our physical sight. They too are partly in the creative dimension.

The Kingdom of Heaven is a Godly dimension. It is where what we call God resides: a Kingdom of God.

So everything must be done first in heaven, a dimension where mind and human intelligence partly function, before it can happen or become materialized in the physical the world where the body operates.

Knowing all of this, Jesus formed a prayer thanking our Father, God, for helping in the discovery of this wisdom, a heavenly discovery.

Jesus knew that one must first seek permission from the Godly intelligence that resides in heaven, to allow whatever we do to take place.

In His prayer He says, "Thy will shall be done on earth as it shall have been done in heaven.”

Jesus knew that He and His disciples would not be around to help solve the world's problems for very long, so He developed a method that he called the Keys to Enter the Kingdom of Heaven. There, we can solve our own problems, and the problems of others.

Jesus and ninety percent of his disciples died as martyrs. The Keys to the Kingdom were not then and are not now presently propagated by religions. People are not being taught by religions how to enter the Kingdom of Heaven and solve their own problems while here on earth. Instead, we are praying to God to solve them for us. We are turning back to God what God sent us here to do. We are losing time that could be spent solving problems here.

So now we know that Jesus, knowing He would not be here to help us in the future, conceived the method he called the Keys to Enter the Kingdom of Heaven that we can learn to use to solve our own problems. I call it the Jesus Method.

Every time we use the Jesus Method, it is like Jesus is still here helping us through His method.

When there are problems to solve, first enter the Kingdom of Heaven and function within God's righteousness and everything else will be given unto you. Even a genius?

Especially a genius!

I thank Jesus for His method.

I thank Jesus for my method - for it was His method that made my method possible, albeit I did not follow religious guidelines, but scientific guidelines.

They both arrive at the same place.

It is quite likely a different place than left brain dominated thinking takes you. If you were thinking of making a genius in the usual left brain way, here are the steps you would follow: A. State the problem. B. Gather the data. C. Analyze this data. D. decide and take action. E. verify with follow-up.

In this computer age which gives the left brain a huge extension, but continues to largely ignore the right brain, steps B and C are probably the most laborious considering the mass of data that is instantly available.

Compare this procedure to the Silva Method, which involves both brain hemispheres: A. Relax physically and mentally. B. Identify the problem. C. Ask for a solution mentally. D. Visualize or imagine the solution that comes to mind as being successful. E. End your session and enjoy the solution.

I am now going to ask you to make a decision this latter way, that is, using both sides of your brain. You know how to do this, if you have completed the four-day training or have advanced in the self-training of Appendix A to where you can relax deeply,

Sit in a comfortable chair. Read the several steps that follow. In fact, read them over several times, so you know what to do without having to open your eyes and refer to this page. Once you have become acquainted with the steps, turn the book over and see if you can repeat the steps by memory. Do not begin until you can. Here are the steps.

Use the 3 to 1 method to enter the alpha level if you are a graduate; or, if you are self-trained, count slowly backward from 100 to 1.

Mentally ask the question: "Is it right for me to create a genius to help make this a better world ?”

Clear your mind for a moment by thinking of something else. For example, you might think about going to the grocery store and getting some item that you need.

Return to your original question - "Is it right for me to create a genius to help make this a better world?" and expect an answer. Immediately you will either mentally hear or feel the answer. If Yes, continue.

Imagine your genius offspring as a giant among people, as a hero to humanity, or whatever way you are inspired to mentally conceive this genius.

Count yourself out and open your eyes, feeling a new importance for yourself and an added purpose in your life - feeling great!



There is another preparatory step that I ask you to do if you are in the process of being· self-trained. It has to do with counter-acting the negative pressures of this work-a-day world. These pressures cause us to feel inferior in many ways. Silva Method graduates learn to insulate themselves from these pressures and because they are seeing their mental powers work "magic" for them constantly they are reminded again and again of their own genius-like capabilities.

However, if you are a self-trainer, you are quite likely still a victim of your parents' cries in your childhood of "CLUMSY!" and "STUPID!" You are still subconsciously smarting from those poor report cards, and later the limited salaries, unpaid bills, miniscule bank balances.

They all add up to a loud subconscious cry, "Who are you to create a genius?"

That voice needs to be silenced if you are to be successful. We are going to silence it right now.

Again, read the steps over again and again until you know what to do without having to look at this page. Pick a comfortable chair and begin.

Use the 3 to 1 method to enter alpha if you are a Silva Method graduate; or, if you are a self-trainer, count slowly backward from 100 to 1.

Hold at least three mental pictures in your mind that show you to be an important person. Here are some examples: You are at a table on a platform with people giving testimonials about how great you are; you are being carried on the shoulders of your team-mates; you are at a huge desk behind a door that says "Director"; you are at the mirror in a room that has a door reading "Star"; you are piloting your own yacht. Decide on three mental pictures - either those or your own, before beginning the exercise.

Imagine you are entering the room that you are now sitting in. Visualize yourself greeting yourself with a hug or handshake. Mentally say, "I love you."

Count yourself out and open your eyes, feeling proud and better than before.



A person is about to enter your life. This person will give you joy beyond belief, as an infant, as a child, and as an adult. God wants you to bear this blessing from Him. This child will be for you and for the world not just a genius but also an angel from heaven.





Chapter 4

WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW TO CREATE A GENIUS

Words, once printed, it is said, often develop a life of their own. The words that follow now will develop a genius.

The stage is set. You are a Silva Method graduate or a self-trained alpha trainee. You have received confirmation that your decision to create a genius is right for you and your spouse. You have amplified your desire, expectation, and belief. You are enthusiastic and ready to begin.

If I ha d decided not to write this book and you wanted to create a genius, what would you do? You would first rely on similar events and past experience. But... you have not done this before, so you would come up with a big fat zero.

Next, you might resort to the area of artificial intelligence - the so-called fifth generation computers. Here is what they can do:

Play such games as backgammon and chess.

Diagnose diseases.

Solve calculus equations.

Prove theorems.

Analyze electronic circuits.



Can these areas help you? Not likely. But in a short. period of time, these computers may also be able to:

Assist in management administration.

Acquire new perceptions through simulation.

Help discover and develop unknown fields.



The very least of these possible areas bears promise, but since there is no connection to higher intelligence, the unknown field of producing a genius cannot be computerized.

Some twenty years ago, Bob Stone met a Japanese computer engineer in Tokyo who was working on computers for one of the few government subsidized laboratories. He explained his project as: developing a computer that instead of running on electrical energy would run on psychotronic energy, that is, the energy of consciousness. No further word on this, but it would indeed be a breakthrough, and one that possibly might give some hints as to what to do first to create a genius. I say "possibly" because it would have to transcend human consciousness and tap in on a super-consciousness. Super-conscious ness is not of this world; to reach it you must cross over to the "other side" - to the realm of the creator because...

To create a genius, you need help from the other side. To get help you must make friends with the other side. Friendship is like a bank account. You must make deposits before you can draw on it.

We are all familiar with the importance of having a visible means of support, but in the creation of a genius, we also need an invisible me a ns of support. We need help from the creative realm that we came from and that we will return to, and from which your genius will come.

Let me quote the first words from my book, The Silva Method for Getting Help from The Other Side :

"Can I get help from the other side?"

Of course.

"You mean from God?"

Yes, but before you draw any conclusions, better wait a few chapters.

"Can anybody?"

Anybody.

"Now?"

Now.

End of quote. But I won't make you wait a few chapters. I will tell you how now.

If you help somebody, they are likely to feel more friendly toward you. They might even help you in return.

As above so below. As below so above. To get in line for help from the other side, help the other side. Any time you remove an obstacle to constructive progress, or do something to ease somebody's misery, or solve some problem that is bringing unhappiness, you are helping the other side and thus helping yourself.

I'm not saying that this is necessary right now for you to do in order to stand in better with the other side. You may already be receiving blessings ("luck") from the other side and merit many more - including a genius. But helping the other side is better than money in the bank. In fact, it is money in the bank - plus. Take businesses. There is a new movement in the American workplace toward employee involvement. It is a defusement of our traditional management-worker dichotomy. Polarity is giving way to unity. Company leaders are asking line supervisors to show greater respect for employees. Other terms appearing in the business lexicon are "participative management,” “problem-solving teams,” and “worker empowerment.”

By whatever name, this is working to improve efficiency and creativity and enabling us to compete in the market with other countries. Is the other side for this? Or against it? You're absolutely right: For it. And if you participate in it and further it using the Silva Method where appropriate, it gives you points on the other side, perhaps even more than if you had helped an old lady to cross the street.

But why not do both.

There is a new movement in the American family. Here the word is “dysfunctional." It refers to unhappy marriages, conflicting parent- child relationships, and anti-social behavior. Use the Silva Method to correct these situations and you are being a co-creator with the creator. Use subjective communication or the Mirror of the Mind and any other formula-type technique you learned in the four-day training.

There is a new attitude toward health and healing in America.

The New England Journal of Medicine recently reported that one third of the patients serviced by the doctors surveyed report that they use alternative forms of healing. The Silva Method is one of them. Use your Silva laboratory to heal yourself and to help heal others. You are working for this side but for the other side as well. Your work to create a genius will be supported by the other side.

Are you thinking all of this will take weeks, months, maybe years? Nonsense. It is your initial actions that tip off the other side that you are on their side and therefore It is on your side. It is your frame of mind that is known to It and appreciated by It.

Begin to work and live the way I have described and then test yourself in only a few days. Ask yourself the following questions:

Do I have an increased sense of humor?

Do I feel more inclined to contribute to society?

Do I have mor e of a sense of spiritual involvement?

Do I adapt better to changing conditions?

Do I have more episodes of generosity and gratitude?

Do I have increased sensitivity toward others?



If you can answer "Yes to three or more of these questions, get ready to follow my instructions to create a genius. If not, wait a few days as you continue to do the creator's work, which is to make this a better world to live in. Then test yourself again.

"Why do I have to work this way, one woman asked me. "If I go to church and pray for success in creating a genius - in Jesus' name - won't my prayers be answered?"

"Maybe," I replied, "but the cross as a sign of the crucifixion does not help solve our problems. Jesus chose to help us by giving us a method to 'enter the Kingdom of Heaven and function within God's righteousness. 1

It is fine to go to church and learn about Jesus' miracles and the resurrection. But Jesus' miracles do not solve your problems. Neither does His resurrection. The only thing that solves real problems, right here, right now, is to learn "to enter the Kingdom of Heaven and learn to function within God's righteousness.”

People who have not learned to enter the Kingdom of Heaven and function there are more times wrong than right. Because of this they are less successful in life and suffer more.

People who have learned to function in this Kingdom of Heaven are r.1ore times right than wrong in everything they do. Because of this, they are more successful in life.• • and in creating a genius.

Are you a millionaire? If you are, does that guarantee that you will be successful in creating a genius? How about if you are the president of your local chamber of commerce? Or if you have a doctorate degree? Or if you are a senator in your local state legislature?

If these things were necessary to be successful in creating a genius, this book would never have been written. What counts is: The further you are from a human animal and the closer you are to being a spiritual human, the better.

How can we tell the difference between a human animal and a spiritual human being? Here is one difference: An animal takes care of itself and its immediate family, but usually does not take care of other animals of the same species. Human beings not only take care of their own person and their immediate family, but also care for other people when necessary.

Animals go by instinct and are not thought to have a spiritual factor. The stronger the spiritual factor of a person, the further that person is from the animal kingdom. Animals do not create geniuses. Spiritual people can create geniuses if they know how.

This know-how stems from the ability to go to the alpha level and use your right brain hemisphere in a special way. You strengthen your spiritual factor every time you slow your brain pulsations from 20 to 10 pulses per second and then use your mind while keeping the brain frequency at 10. In this way, you are using your right brain hemisphere.

So what I have been urging you to do in this chapter, before we begin the unique process of creating· a genius, is not only to acquire control of your mind with the Silva Method but to use it in ways to benefit yourself and others, so your spiritual factor is lifted.

People get lost in thought because it is unfamiliar territory. Scientific surveys show that ninety percent of humanity does their thinking only with the left brain hemisphere - that is, at 20 pulsations per second, the beta frequency. This is off center thinking - eccentric thinking. If you were a soul with a genius potential seeking parents, would you be attracted to eccentric thinkers? Or would you prefer to be brought into this world by centered thinkers who have developed their spiritual nature and who themselves are genius caliber?

Souls are attracted to the parents that are best for them - best in terms of strengths and weaknesses, and best in terms of maturity and intelligence.

Silva Method graduates - and those who train themselves in the Silva Method - make desirable parents to advanced souls. Most other people lose the ability early in life to control and use the right brain hemisphere. With the Silva Method you regain that ability.

Why do most people lose the ability to use their right brain hemisphere?

The focusing faculty of the eye is largely responsible.

Ninety percent of humanity do not develop correctly because, between the ages of seven through fourteen, they are more attracted to seeing new things. The physical world holds great attraction. When young people spend all their time focusing on the things of the outer world, then they do not develop in a balance d manner. The left brain hemisphere learns, but the right hemisphere is idle.

When looking at things, people must focus their eyes, and focusing· requires that the brain function at twenty pulsations, which is left hemisphere thinking.

The people who develop incorrectly are people who never have the need to visualize with their eyes closed. These individuals, or their parents, are not aware of the value of visualizing with the eyes closed to detect information with the faculties of the right brain hemisphere at ten pulsations per second and thus become clairvoyants.

Those who do visualize and imagine with their eyes closed are called daydreamers. They are ridiculed by both parents and teachers. Day dreaming, they claim, is a waste of time.

Recently, NASA sent a memo out to the staff exhorting them to daydream more as it enhances inventiveness. Three cheers! Now how about you educators.

Now you parents have the opportunity to help your children, between the ages of seven and 14, to develop both brain hemispheres equally, so that they will be geniuses.

If we had known then what we know now, we would all select the profession that our children should learn and practice.

Who do we blame for having caused this problem of left brain thinking instead of left and right brain thinking?

I believe that it was our own ignorance, ignorance of science, the ignorance of our parents, and the ignorance of teachers.

Ignorance does not mean that we were dumb, or bad, but that we just didn't know.

Now we know.

Sometime during the second seven year anabolic life cycle, after we get our second set of teeth, during the time when the male's voice matures and when the female starts her monthly cycle, nature is signaling that biological maturity is being completed.

Male and female are ready to mate and conceive children at the beginning of the third seven year anabolic life cycle, at about 15 years of age. But because the educational system is so slow in teaching a profession, they are forced to wait through one or more additional seven year anabolic life cycles, in order to complete their education and be able to earn enough money to support themselves.

It is during this “waiting to mate” period that humans create most problems. They are ready for society, but society is not ready for them.

What can we do to prevent this problem?

We have not yet learned how to genetically change these particular laws of nature, so the only thing left for us to do is to accelerate the learning process - we must find ways to accelerate the educational system.

We can start by selecting the professions that will be needed in the future. If we do this accurately, then we can eliminate subjects of study that have no bearing on that specific profession, and study only the subjects required by that profession.

Using accelerated learning techniques, computers and calculators, students should receive their doctorate degrees at the age of fifteen. Then they will be able to get married and support themselves.

When they de sire to learn more, to broaden their education, they can do so after that. They will be married and they will have doctorates in their professions. This will be an ideal time to learn more.

The ultimate idea is to eventually reach the point in time when everybody on the planet will be functioning as geniuses, prophets, wisemen, and clairvoyants.

The way to get there will be by first training all fathers and mothers to be clairvoyants. We also need to train teachers to be clairvoyants and make them aware of the plan.

Then, besides training the present population on the planet, we should also continue to prepare the stage for those who continue to arrive on the planet. The explanation in Part II will take care of that.

But, let's stop right here!

Those of you who are not Silva Method graduates, or who have not completed the self-training in Appendix A, will be wasting your time by reading further. From here on, the words may get technical and exercises will be described in Silva terminology that you will not be able to understand or carry out.

If your curiosity propels you to read on, you will only get curious results.

Consider this an unguarded frontier post beyond which only Silva Method trained readers, and those trained with the forty-day program in Appendix A, are permitted to proceed. Those of you who must turn back, identify this place with a bookmark, so that, when you complete your training, you can join the rest of us. By "you" I mean both husband and wife.

See you later.

What follows now is for both parents, husband and wife. If only one has been reading thus far, it is necessary for the other to start the book and read this far. Of course, both must be trained in the Silva Method, or the forty-day method in Appendix A.

A husband and wife are spiritually bound. This is not only by dint of the marriage ceremony but also because their relationship is based on love. Sex is physical. Love is spiritual.

However, often a marriage is fractured by the stress of survival in the economic world. All sorts of misunderstandings can arise. These can erode the spiritual ties.

They need to be restored and reinforced. The Silva Method makes this easy. Here is how. Each partner can follow these directions at his or her convenient time. It does not have to be done simultaneously.

Enter the alpha level with the 3 to 1 method, or the countdown method you learned in Appendix A.

Place your spouse on your mental screen. Mentally speak in loving terms using your own words, asking to be forgiven for all misunderstandings and in turn forgiving your spouse for all misunderstandings. Visualize this mutual forgiveness being consummated in an embrace. End your session by counting out, opening your eyes, feeling great.

A Silva couple in Gary, Indiana, found that their sexual activity, long in the doldrums, became more satisfying and more frequent.

A Silva couple of Los Angeles, California, where each had separate careers, began spending more time with each other.

A Silva couple in Atlanta, Georgia, who had been taking separate vacations began taking trips together.

More unity below - more unity above.

Let’s review just how we have set the stage to create a genius in your child.

We have reviewed how Jesus gave us a method to solve our problems by entering the Kingdom of Heaven within and functioning within God’s righteousness. That review plus an understanding of brain wave frequency control, the activation of the right brain, and other scientific understanding of brain-mind functioning has built within us a strong desire, belief, and expectancy.

We have been trained to enter alpha and function meaningfully there, either by a certified Silva Method lecturer or by yourself, using the instructions in Appendix A. So both parents are now clairvoyants and geniuses themselves, able to program for future events.

We have gone through a period of using the Silva Method to solve problems, help people, and to make this a better world to live in - all of which has brought us closer to the creator by doing his work and consequently more worthy of help from the other side in our transforming our child into a genius.

If your child is between the ages of seven and fourteen, it is time to begin the transformation.

The next step: The two of you must decide on the child's future profession or occupation.

Psychologists generally advocate that a child should select his or her own profession. This is logical left brain thinking and it sounds good on the surface. But I have known students who were about to finish college and still had not decided what they wanted to do. Imagine how much of their costly education was irrelevant to their ultimate choice.

I have also known students who were so uncertain about what was their calling that they remained in school working on advanced degrees that they might never put to use. I call these "professional students." Others that I have known have entered professions or pursuits of their own choice that they discovered they totally disliked.

Parents trained in the use of the right brain can make wise choices for their children. Here is how.

At separate times, father and mother should enter their alpha level. First, you project back in time to review the child’s growing up, especially those times when the child surprised you with early skills or mature behavior. Start with the child's first year. See that year spelled out on your mental screen, such as the numbers 1988. Play back that year, asking to see behavioral highlights.

When you have reached the current year, project ahead. Start with the year when your child will be 15. Imagine your child's activities that year. Play ahead a few more years watching those activities develop. If you’re satisfied that you have identified the child's career, end your session.

Compare notes with your spouse. There may be total agreement, partial agreement, or total disagreement. The latter is hardly likely, as you are both clairvoyant and are studying the same child. Freak situations however may result in this and the only alternative is to wait a few days or weeks and replay. If there is total agreement, embrace and rejoice. If there is partial agreement, enlist the left brain's participation and discuss it together. By emphasizing the areas of agreement, you will arrive at a mutually acceptable decision.

Why did I ask you to project into the future by starting at age 15?

I believe that in educating a person in a specific field of arts or science, it can be taught in a way so that the person receives a doctorate by the age of fifteen. Then that person is ready to get married and will be able to support a family.

If this person, who has a doctorate and a good occupation, now desires to enter any other field of work, he or she is still young enough to augment their education and succeed in the new field.

A person who has been educated in the way I have described will thank his parents for having selected a profession for him or her. The person will love such a field, because mama and papa communicated subjectively with the child in a loving way and programmed the child to accept such a decision. In addition, a person loves what comes easily. In this case, the person's work will come easily because of papa and mama's programming and the genius factor.

One hates what one has trouble understanding, but when a person understands the subject matter and is good at the task, then the person's level of enjoyment is vaulted to gratifying heights.

The second method, where you start before conception as covered in Part II, is more technical and requires that schools accept and continue to reinforce the program. It takes specially trained teachers to continue that particular program until graduation.

Of course, the simplest method is this first method where the child is taught at home to distinguish the difference between visualization and imagination.

You would practice enhancing visualization first, and then enhancing imagination. Details are given in the next chapter.

Once the student understands what visualization and imagination are, the student should take advantage while in the classroom to practice these skills. The student tries to convert words, phrases, or stories into pictures, mental picture. The student then practices reviewing the mental pictures, with eye lids closed and eyes rolled upward twenty degrees.

When the eyes are rolled upward, that position signals to the brain to produce more alpha pulsations.

This helps a student eventually to find the center of the alpha dimension. If the student has already found the center of alpha, then rolling the eyes upward to a 20-degree angle will help the student to remain at the center of alpha when his mind tries to wander off the case.

As mental pictures are reviewed with eyes turned upwards in this manner, both brain hemispheres participate in the learning process and it becomes dramatically enhanced. More is retained, with a minimum of repetition.

These are exciting episodes in the daily school routine. The budding genius will want to share successes with the parents. This is not only quality time, it is treasured time. Parents and child alike reinforce their desire, belief, and expectation and bask in an unseen but unmistakable glow of appreciation from the other side.

It is a good moment for the three of you to pause and mentally thank Jesus for the Keys to the Kingdom of Heaven - control of the mind and use of the right brain hemisphere.

The right brain hemisphere is the spiritual, intuitive, creative brain hemisphere. To strengthen the spiritual factor in a person, relaxed visualization and imagination with a positive purpose is the key.

The stronger the spiritual factor of a person, the further that person is from the animal kingdom, and the closer to a genius.

In order to strengthen the spiritual factor, one must learn to slow the brain pulsations from twenty to ten pulses per second and then learn to become mentally active while continuing to maintain the ten cycles pulsing. In this way, the person is using the right brain hemisphere. When we talk about being mentally active we mean doing things such as analyzing problems, visualizing the solution process, and imagining the solution manifested.

Every time you function in that dimension you strengthen your spiritual factor and become more human and more of a genius. Scientific research indicates that ninety percent of humanity does their thinking only with the left brain hemisphere at 20 pulsations per second beta. This does not help to humanize a human being. If anything, it dehumanizes. No wonder so-called humans continue to create war after war. They are left brain operators, and with no enhancement of the spiritual factor, they function more animal like, and less genius like.

The right brain hemisphere reigns in the spiritual kingdom. The spiritual kingdom is the heavenly kingdom of God. It is also where we come from when we are born and go back to when we leave this planet.

As we learn to use the right brain hemisphere to think with, we need to remember that the mind is subjective, non-physical, invisible, and intangible to our biological senses.

Progress toward becoming a genius is not always measurable through standard testing procedures.

Einstein was considered a poor student because he was me assured by left-brain standards.

You will know that your child is becoming more and more of a genius by his or her wisdom, maturity, and spirituality.

There is something else that you will know. You will know what to do and when to do it.

Remember, you are geniuses as well. The instructions in this book do not pretend to be the whole story, but merely to set the basic approach to creating a genius.

Enter your level from time to time and ask your laboratory counselors what needs to be added to the book's procedures at that particular time. Answers will come. Trust them and act upon them.

They come from the spiritual kingdom where geniuses are born.





Chapter 5

HOW TO START THE PROCESS OF CREATING A GENIUS

If your child has already taken the Silva Method training·, he or she must apply it daily. Here are some of the possible ways:

If there is a problem falling asleep, use Sleep Control.

Practice using To Awake Control to awaken instead of an alarm clock.

If tired or sleepy in class, use the Awake Control to be refreshed and alert.

If troubled with a headache, use Headache Control.

Remember dreams, write or record on tape. Ask for a dream to solve a problem. If a nightmare occurs, have child replay the dream at alpha and change the ending.

If the child imagines a monster in the room, by snapping the fingers of the left hand while at alpha, the monster will get smaller and smaller and disappear.

For better memory and quicker learning in school or doing homework, instruct the child how to mentally picture the material such as words spelled correctly or arithmetic problems with the answers on the mental screen.

Later, the mental screen produces the answers when needed. The more use that is made of the mental screen the better.

Play games with the memory pegs - a good way to practice the use of the mental screen.

Make the use of the Three Fingers Technique standard practice on tests, in class, or when in doubt.

The Mirror of the Mind should be used every day. Its applications for your child include the programming for academic success, for a perfect day, for the better behavior toward him or her of difficult students, and general goal-reaching and problem- solving.

Pain control, once practiced, becomes a rapid way to end discomfort from falls and bruises. Glove Anesthesia comes quickly to the hand and is transferred quickly to the affected area.

Habit Control applications for the child include over-eating, eating too many sweets, chewing gum, and anti- social behaviorisms that are impeding the child's progress.

If the child has personal problems that he or she prefers not to talk about, encourage the child to use the Glass of Water Technique so that a solution will come in a dream or as a flash of insight.

Remind the child that he or she can get answers in the laboratory by asking the counselors, and that he or she can create the circumstances that he or she is seeking.

These points may appear to be a large order. If you, as parents, have not been using your Silva Method techniques daily, then, of course, it seems monumental. But, if you use these techniques, then you are able to take daily applications in your stride and encourage your child to do likewise.

Children seldom go in the direction we point, but they readily follow in the direction vie go. Use your Silva Method techniques for the good of yourselves and for the good of your genius child.

If you don't use it, you lose it.

If you do use it,​ then... Who was it who said, The intellect of the wise is like glass; it admits the light of heaven and reflects it.”

You, your mate, your child - and even I - get more help.

You can use the following information, whether you are a Silva Method graduate or not, if you are starting to train your children at age seven. This information is essential in teaching children to become geniuses.

Explain to the child what visualization is, and how to practice visualization.

Explain to the child what imagination is and how to practice imagination.



Visualization with the left brain is:

The ability to mentally recall what something looks like after an impression has been made on the left brain hemisphere at 20 cycles per second beta, using the sense of sight and with eyes focused.

Visualization with the right brain is:

The ability to mentally picture a previous impression made on the right brain hemisphere at 10 cycles per second brain frequency, through subjective communication.

Imagination with the left brain is:

The ability to alter what exists to obtain better results.

Imagination with the right brain is:

The ability to create something for the first time, something that did not exist on our planet previously.

There are two ways for Silva Method graduates to help in the creation of natural clairvoyants.

For graduates of the Silva Method, begin before conception as indicated in this book.

While the child is growing between seven and 14 years of age, teach them the Silva Method techniques, as you remember them and are using them.



Visualization exercise for the left brain:

Close your eyes and practice recalling things you have seen while your brain is functioning at 20 cycles per second. Describe everything in full detail and color.

Visualization exercise for the right brain:

Close your eyes and practice recalling things you have seen while your brain is functioning at 10 cycles per second. Describe everything in full detail and color.

Developing a natural clairvoyant genius before birth:

Follow the instructions outlined in Part II of this book.

Developing a natural clairvoyant genius after birth:

The ideal age of the child to work with is between seven and 15 during the second seven-year anabolic life cycle. During this anabolic life cycle, the child gets a new set of teeth. The male's voice changes to a mature voice and the female begins her monthly rhythm. The mind of both males and females start functioning deductively. That means that they develop the ability to analyze problems and figure out solutions.

The overall average predominant brain frequency of a child between ages seven and 14, when eyes are closed or defocused and rolled slightly upward, is between seven and 14 cycles per second, centering on 10 cycles per second.

Procedure :

Step No. 1. Practice visualization.

Get the child to practice visualization by closing the eyes, rolling them slightly upwards in relation to their face, and recalling and describing in full detail and color, people, places, and things that they have seen. This should be done for fifteen minutes, once a week, preferably on Sunday.

Get the child to explain what they have seen on television or at a movie. The child should explain the movie in full detail and color with eyes closed and turned slightly upward. They are not to explain the plot, but to describe what they saw, what it looked like, in full detail and color.

On the last Sunday of each month (we will assume you are practicing on Sunday), tell the child to practice imagination.

With the eyes closed and rolled upward slightly, the child should alter any images they have seen. For instance, if the child has seen someone with a green sweater, then mentally change that sweater to red, and create a mental picture of the same person wearing a red sweater. The child could imagine that person entering his or her home and coming out wearing a red sweater instead of a green one.

This kind of practice - practicing visualization for 15 minutes for the first three (or sometimes four) Sundays and practicing imagination on the last Sunday - should be continued for one year. Start when the child turns seven years of age and continue until they are eight.

Then when the child is eight, practice every other Sunday until the child turns nine.

After that, practice on one Sunday, then skip two Sundays. Continue this schedule until the child turns 10.

After that, practice one Sunday, then skip three Sundays. Continue this until the child becomes 11.

Thereafter, practice once a month until the child become 14 years of age.

Case Working

When the child reaches eight years of age, by this time they have practiced visualization for one year. The parents, who have developed their own clairvoyant ability through the Silva Method four-day training or who have trained themselves for 40 days (Appendix A), should then introduce the child to case working, as practiced in the Silva Method training and as outlined in this book.

From the age of​ 11 to the age of 14, the child should practice case working as well as practicing visualization as outlined above.

This is the natural way for children to develop their clairvoyant ability.

Once they have developed this ability to communicate subjectively, they will receive many benefits:

They can communicate subjectively with their body and keep it healthy.

They can communicate subjectively with other people and avoid conflicts, and obtain information they can use to solve problems.

They can communicate subjectively with higher intelligence on the other side and get guidance and help to correct any problem.



Do this for your child, and they will not need to take the Silva Method four-day training.

Remember, both graduate and non-graduate parents can train their own children between the ages of seven and 14 and never have to send them to the course.

And parents who are graduates can go further than that: They can attract the genius they desire.

The child should also be given cases to do daily. These should be health cases to start with as these are the easiest to do. Later, you can give business, political, social, or personal problems as cases.

The reason that health cases are the easiest for all of us to do is because human survival is our mind's number one priority. It is easiest to be clairvoyant when the problem is related to life and death.

Similarly, the hardest projects are those that are irrelevant to survival, problems that nobody is worrying about - like will it rain three years from today. Every case should involve a meaningful problem of some sort.

The mind does not want to waste time on situations that are not problems. The more a person is concerned or affected by a problem or the more a person is suffering or is life-threatened by a problem, the better the problem is for the child to work on at this stage.

It would be inadvisable to refer now to psychic ability or clairvoyance. Children do not like to be different from their peers. They do not hear other children talk about psychic ability, the psi factor, or clairvoyance, so their motivation could be impaired.

But all children enjoy guessing. Guessing is acceptable. So doing cases become guessing, and the child is measured in "guessing ability. "

When the child does a case and the child's first guess is correct, score 100. When the child is correct on the second guess, score 80. If right on the third try, the score would be 60; on the fourth try, a 40; and on the fifth try, a 20.

Figure out the average and keep a record. You will notice that the average will increase with practice.

As the child's guessing factor improves, then start selecting more difficult projects. A project can be made more difficult by giving less information to the child about the case. For instance, don't give the child the name of the person involved. Instead just say, "What is worrying the person that I have a picture of in my mind?" Later you can say, “… the person I am thinking of?"

When the child guesses wrong, never tell the child that he or she is wrong. You want to encourage successes. Note down their response and tell them to try again. Give them a multiple choice case and see if they can guess right on the second, third, or fourth guess.

It is important that you remember this: When the child has eyes closed, never say that he or she is wrong. This lowers the child's self-esteem, expectancy, and other genius factors.

When the child is right, get the child to go over the feeling that was associated with the correct guess.

One businessman, a Silva Method graduate who had been training his own ESP by practicing cases, thought his intuition had led him astray. He was a president of a large manufacturing· plant. They needed another site. After considerable study, a site was approved by his comptroller, marketing director, and personnel director. But he said No. Each asked him why. "Gut feeling" was his only reply as he did not want to confess he used his Silva laboratory. Two months later, the state took over that land for highway straightening. He had saved his company a bundle.

A large east coast university tested successful businessmen on a random number computer to see how their guessing ability compared with unsuccessful businessmen. The criterion for success was to have doubled the company profits in the past three years.

The successful businessmen did twice as well. But they tired. The more they tired, the lower their scores. Then they changed the procedure. Instead of adding up the "hits" at the end, they told each participant wrong or right immediately. In this way, they began to recognize the feeling of being right and this reversed the trend. Instead of getting poorer they got better with practice. That is why it is good to have your child know when he or she is right and remember the feeling at that time. It reinforces rightness.

Just because the executives in that university tired, do not g-o easy on your child. They were not going to alpha. The child is. It is energy-expending effort at beta. Duck soup at alpha. Remember these points:

The child should be between seven and 14 years of age.

Have the child explain what they have seen in full detail and color with eyes closed.

Practice for 15 minutes per night for three consecutive nights when the moon is full.



Use only problem cases where people are suffering.



Never, never say "wrong" when the child's eyes are closed.

Work 10 cases and average out the results child’s development.

Reinforce the correct guesses by reviewing them. Also have the child recall the feeling associated with the success.

At first, use multiple choice problems where people are suffering.

Reward the child for doing well.

Sponsor competitive games between children to encourage their practice.



Exercising the psi factor, which is the ability to guess correctly, is a priority activity.

The second priority is to introduce the child to knowledge of the area of work chosen by you and your mate.

Television programs about the profession or occupation chosen are fine. So are movies. When reading is involved, one of the parents should read out loud, showing the child any photos connected with the newspaper or magazine articles.

This reading aloud should be done in a spontaneous manner rather than as a required duty. "Oh, look at this!” is better than "It's time to...”

It would be ideal if teachers, appraised of the special program for your child, could implement that program with special projects. In Part II, where you create a genius starting- before conception, we presume that such cooperation from educator s is possible and we describe teacher - parent cooperation in some typical ways.

However, that is over five years in the future. Hopefully by then, educator s will be more aware of the importance of the right brain and will be more motivated to participate in the making of a genius.

Nevertheless, you and your mate should have a talk with your child1s teachers, one at a time, explaining the Silva Method and its advantages, and outlining steps you are taking to exploit those advantages for your child - all with the purpose of lighting a fire under the teachers at best, or flushing cut the skeptics at worst.

Should the skeptics outnumber the others, you might want to investigate other nearby schools it the transfer privilege exists in your area.

Our present educational system does not recognize the learning potential of a human being. In emerging countries, where children are required to pitch in and help parents even as toddlers, they show remarkable ability to carry out simple tasks in a day or two of observation. Reeds are gathered, piled, and bundled by a three year old. Goats are milked by a four year old. A two year old collects eggs in a henhouse.

In many European countries, pre-school children help in the markets, bagging merchandise and making change. Others offer trinkets to tourists or work in the fields.

I was four years old when my father died in a terrorist act during the Mexican revolution. My mother re-married and moved to another city in Texas and I lived with my grandmother.

I began wondering about life at that early age. I was now without both parents. My uncle Manuel lived with my grandmother. He worked in a nearby steam laundry and his pay was barely enough to sustain us. Two blocks away was another building occupied by a British smelting company. Uncle Manuel made me a shoe shine box. I began to make extra money for our household by shining shoes in front of the laundry and smelting company.

It was fun. I enjoyed the people. I decided I could do more and I began selling newspapers. If I didn't shine somebody's shoes I sold them a newspaper. Uncle Manuel helped me prepare separate lists. On one were the names, addresses, and office numbers of those who wanted shoeshines and when. On the other, those who wanted daily newspapers. On a third, those who wanted both. These lists helped me be in the right place at the right time, giving my customers better service from me. Looking back, I consider this experience a lot better than knowledge or first grade.

Looking back, I also see that I was using my left brain to keep records and supplies, and my right brain to come up with imaginative ideas to better serve my customers. I'm not saying I was a genius, but what I was doing was giving me a better real life education than a classroom.

Soon I was earning a dollar a day, then two dollars a day. This was now more than Uncle Manuel was making in the laundry. Because the family was in such a financial struggle, it was decided that I would continue working rather than start school.

I began a third activity: Grocery stores put out circulars on Sundays to advertise the next week's prices.

They paid me to hand these out. One day I was imagining what the smelting company's offices looked like, who cleaned them. Did each person take care of their own? Just then the general manager stopped by for & shoe shine. I asked him, “Sir, would you like me to clean your office at the end of the day?”

"How much do you want?" he asked.

I had not done my homework. "Whatever you want to pay me," I replied.

"I'll try you out for a week," he replied.

I arrived that afternoon at closing time. He was getting ready to leave.

"Sweep, dust, wash the windows, and oil the furniture,” he brusquely ordered, and he left.

I decided to also empty the pencil sharpeners, install paper in the toilet, and mop the floors. Then I took all the trash and placed it outside for the trash collectors. One day I found a five dollar bill on the floor. Another day I found a watch on the desk. I knew intuitively I was being tested and each time I put the item in a drawer and the next day I told the manager what I had found and where I had put them.

I was not only hired on a regular basis by the manager but was given other offices to clean at so much per office. Now I was selling newspapers and shining shoes weekdays, distributing circulars on Sundays, and cleaning offices at night.

What was I missing out on at school? One and one make two, while I was counting my profits for the day. C-A-T spells cat, while I was calling out the newspaper headline of the day. Coloring with crayons, while I was polishing furniture and shining shoes.

I'm sure my six and seven year old education in the outside world can be topped by many other children forced by economic circumstances to educate themselves. The point is: Your genius-in­the-making should not be spared any opportunity that arises for exposure to expanded experiences, for investigating unknown places, for trying out new skills, and for imaginative new games, toys, and entertainment.

My non-instructional education snow-balled. By 12, I was driving my uncle's Model T Ford and chauffeuring a lady around town to collect her rents. I was cutting lawns and doing odd jobs. I was driving 150 miles to San Antonio to buy merchandise at wholesale not available in Laredo and peddle it door-to-door. Soon I hired a crew of youngster s to work for part of the profits.

I asked them what they were learning in school. It did not click with me because I saw no purpose in it.

Was it geometry? English? History? Whatever. At any rate, the unschooled boy was the boss, and the schoolboys were his workers. Symbolic.

I don't intend to demeanor the educational system. However, going to school and entering the classroom each day should involve, like life, a new adventure. Child re n have a natural curiosity about nature, people, the out-of-doors, business, manufacture, farming, and other life activities. Instead of exploiting- this, the rote of learning suppresses it.

Children are expected to learn about real life in an artificial environment. No tree, but a picture of a tree. No fish, just a picture of a fish. No survival problem, just a black board problem. What motivation can there possibly be each day being in the same classroom with the same people, the same scene out the window, the same smells.

Traditional classroom teaching runs 180 degrees counter to the way the brain learns new things. The brain learns new things not by knowing about these new things but by directly experiencing new things. Students need to become the things they are studying.

Your child should not leave school, but you need to add another dimension of education to the classroom education now being received. That dimension can be summed up as: Real life experiences.

Your budding genius deserves more than the incredible boredom and drudgery of one room. School field trips provide occasional opportunities for "hands on" education, but they are far too infrequent. How about adding some home "field trips.” Where? Well, perhaps out to where some new home is being built, or to where dad or mom works, or to the airport.

Give it to your child as a case or problem to solve - what kind of a field trip would you benefit most from? Remind the child of the career that lies ahead. Perhaps there is a way to observe a person in that position doing the job, i.e., a genius who will be a doctor may benefit by touring a hospital. An investment-counselor-to-be may enjoy watching the stock market in action or a local brokerage. A budding lawyer may enjoy being a courtroom spectator.

There is research being done now on neuro-chemically boosting intelligence. On basic vitamin and mineral supplement was found to boost IQ over five points. Hydergine is claimed to be a cognitive enhancer, improving memory and clarity of thinking. Psychedelic plants are being touted in some areas as an aid to the learning process.

I vote no, no, no!

These are material world or left brain approaches that are a far cry from the natural genius tuned in to the other side and its blessings of intuition, creativity, and inspiration that we wish to create.

You might as well use some electronic machine that promises instant theta or mind-altering moonscapes or” brain tune-ups.”

It's all so simple once you remember that we all were born to be geniuses and we would continue to be geniuses if we did not mature. Our parents interfere with dismal evaluations of us. “Wet your bed once more and I'll rub your face in it.” “You're grounded!” “No television for one week.” “I'm stopping your allowance.” “You’re a clumsy brat!” “Don't tell me that baloney.” “Go to bed.”

This is all demeaning to a child. It gives the child feelings of guilt for not having done better or differently. It puts down the child.

A genius needs to be put up. A genius thrives on recognition of accomplishment, of appreciation of ability and efforts, and reinforcement of special skills and expertise.

Remember, earlier in this chapter I repeated several times that parents should never say "wrong" in a guessing game while the child has his or her eyes closed. Well, the same holds true for putting down the child, eyes closed or open. Boost the child's self-esteem rather than cloud it. That self-esteem is saying to the brain neurons, "You're tops." So the brain neurons behave “tops. "

It would be disastrous to a genius-in-the-making to provide input that decreases expectations of wondrous accomplishments. That high expectation is the backbone of a genius-to-be. You don’t have to lie. Just don' t comment on shortcomings or use words that are less judgmental. There is always a way avoiding the negative and emphasizing the positive.

Some years ago, in Roxbury, Massachusetts, a socio-economically deprived area at the time, a school experiment was conducted. A class of slow learners was transferred across the Charles River to a Harvard University classroom, given a new teacher, and told that this was done because they were special students. Not within years, or months, but within a few days those so-called slow learners became fast learners. Their self-image was changed.

We all function to the limits of our own self-image, but not beyond. Don't worry about ego, conceit, or bragging. That will very likely be a phase, but only a phase. The child will simmer down as it matures.

Meanwhile, the realization of superior work, talented creativity, and above average intellectual ability is the power that drives the genius-to-be to ever new heights of growth and maturity.

That's the big picture. Lurking along the way are tiny impediments, pressures, and programming that can suck the genius out of your child. Let's turn the hot whit e light of scrutiny on them.

Hey, y'know what I mean? Sounds cool to kids. Y' know. It gives them time to think. Y'know, huh? They all do it. It's, y'know, like right on.

Don't chastise your child for that kind of non - talk. He or she must communicate with their peers in their language. But ease your child away from it talking· at home or away from school (with adults). Don't chastise, just correct.

“No, dear, I don't know. That's why I asked you.”

You may think I'm being picayune about this, but communicating skills are the hallmark of genius. The Old Testament says, "In the beginning was the word." The word is creative. What we say, we create.

Most of us do not realize this. If we don't, how is our child genius supposed to realize it? We need to remove destructive expressions from our own way of speaking first. But if that does not cause our child to do likewise, re-programming using the Silva Method techniques is necessary.

In Silva, we call this mental housecleaning. We program out negative expressions and program in positive expressions. Negatives are destructive. Positives are creative. Geniuses must purge themselves of negativity in order to become super-creative.

What are some of the expressions? It's hard for me to remember because I have rid myself of them. I can't stand them. They turn me off. Most of them give me a pain in the neck. It kills me to hear them.

They turn my stomach. They make me sick. When a friend uses them, it breaks my heart. Some make me boil. Others leave me cold.

Well, you get the message. If these insidious phrases infiltrate our conversation in a repetitive way, they can block genius. How? By acting as orders to the body. The mind runs the body. The body takes orders from the mind. It does what the mind says it should do, implicitly, blindly, automatically

Can your child be a genius if he or she can't stand? Has a pain in the neck? A faulty heart? A fever? The chills? An upset stomach?

Mental housecleaning starts right after the Silva training is completed. It starts first with you the parents and proceeds quickly to the child.

My examples were anatomical. I chose that kind to make the insidiousness all the more apparent. Other examples could be in the "I can't" family. It's a big family. There is no shortage of expressions to indicate the limits of a human being. The child genius dares not indulge in them. That the parents also avoid them goes without saying.

Give yourself, your mate, your child a good kick in the "can'ts."

There is another "cop out" that I do not let my students get away with. "I'll try." I jump in with, "Don't try. Just do it."

Like all other words, "try" is creative. It can create one of two results. You can fail or you can succeed.

Why give yourself a choice? When you decide not to "try" but to "do," there is no such indecision about the desired result. You succeed. It is done.

There are two expressions that have caught on among our Silva Method graduates. Whenever they hear somebody make a negative statement, including themselves, they quickly say, “Cancel - cancel."

In reply to the usual greeting "How are you?" they reply, "Better and better!" It circumvents the temptation to share some difficulty and reprograms them to actually be better and better.

"Cancel-cancel" and "better and better" are valuable reactions t0 program. Anyone, parent or child, can enter their alpha level ana give themselves instructions to use these reactions where applicable. They can also give themselves instructions while at level to avoid physiologically-related negative comments and self-limiting phrases in the first place.

In Part II, because we are working with younger children, even infants. and, in fact, the fetus itself, we will go more thoroughly into the power of the spoken word and how to harness that power m the creation of our genius.





Chapter 6

CONTINUING THE PROCESS OF ACCELERATED LEARNING

It is popular these days to consider education as the key to humanity's salvation.

There was a day when education played a minor role. It was the military that was the key to your salvation. One thing that can be said for the military: It changed with the times. The navy may have had to prove itself over the army and later it had to give air power some flak, but each service adapted to the needs of the situation.

Education appears to be a monolithic slumbering giant that is more interested in proving the effectiveness of the status quo than in investigating and adopting innovative approaches.

Oh, there have been changes. But these have been changes within the overall structure. Changes are crying to be made in the very structure of the educational system. And these fundamental changes are faced with a lock-out by the left brain boards of education, the left brain administrators, and the left brain teachers.

Millennia ago, humanity used its right brain more than it does today. People intuitively knew where to migrate and where to settle and where the hunting was best. Gradually, we became totally concerned with exploiting the riches, enjoying the comforts, and relishing the pleasures of the physical world. The right brain began to take a back seat to the left brain. In, fact, the left brain choked off what remained of right brain input - that input became the still, small voice that we now know as intuition or psychic ability.

The last of the right brain thinkers became known as oracles. They were freaks of the day. Even those who were still looked up to later on, such as the Greek oracle of Delphi, were considered with awe as we might consider a circus sideshow.

Education has nailed the right brain coffin shut. It has relegated such remaining right brain subjects as art and music to the bottom of the priority totem pole with enough funds to barely enable them to keep breathing.

And, speaking of funds, this action in behalf of the left brain to the detriment of the right brain, is endorsed by the funders of education - the local legislators - and supported by you and me.

That's pretty solid stuff. What hope is there for shaking these fetters and freeing the right brain? Very little, but there is some. Here are some isolated cracks in the left brain curtain.

At Stanford University's Terman Building, Professor Robert McKim conducts training in Visual Thinking. First you learn relaxation techniques. Then you enter what McKim calls The Imaginarium. It's a geodetic dome. You lie on the floor with about fifteen others, your body arranged like the spokes of a wheel. There are first guided meditations. Then the students are free to have their own creative fantasies. Robert McKim, you are on the right track. Keep going, but expect a long trip.

There's a school near Adelaide, Australia, where a special education teacher stays after school for those of her students who wish to participate. She invites the parents to attend also. She then conducts relaxation sessions, using standard techniques. Once relaxed, the students and parents are led through simple affirmations like:

Every day in every way I am getting better, better, and better.

Positive thoughts bring me benefits and advantages I desire.

I will always maintain a perfectly healthy body and mind.

They are then asked to visualize themselves in class the next day doing everything asked of them promptly and efficiently, with the parents visualizing themselves at home functioning in a similar manner.

If this sounds familiar to those of you who are Silva Method graduates, it is because this teacher is a Silva Method graduate. If she called these afternoon sessions part of the Silva Method, they would not be long permitted. Instead, she calls them stress management sessions, which they are, and skill reinforcement, which they also are.

The Silva Method was taught to faculty and student body at several United States private schools and in a number of Guam schools with excellent results. Before and after standardized testing showed improvement in health, sleep, ego strength, self-assurance, social orientation, cooperation, enthusiasm, self-image, behavior, creativity, memory, and awareness. The biggest swing came in the number of students who at the start of the testing period did not believe in ESP. Practically all of them did at the final testing - because they experienced their own psychic ability in action.

In November of 1983, the president of a Mexican university requested that the Silva Method training be given to the deans of the several schools. One of these deans later became president and requested that the training be given to all faculty members and key administrators. With the agreement of the Silva trained faculty, the entire student body was then trained as an important contribution to their level of academic performance.

A follow-up study showed improvement in the following aspects:

Increased participation in academic activities.

More goal oriented.

Higher motivation for self- improvement.

Love for life.

Faster, more confident decision-making.

Physical fitness.

Broader perspectives for solving problems.



These successful academic research programs were a great satisfaction to me but, at the same time, a bitter disappointment. While establishing the academic benefits of the Silva Method training, they also proved that the educators were not ready for such a drastic change in their established ways. The Silva Method was not maintained by the successors to these pioneer educators. Once again the left brain dominated the right.

For years now, many parents, realizing the shortcomings of the public education system, have resorted to educating their children at home. Not many states permit this, but even in those who don't there are appeal provisions.

On May 5, 1993, CBS aired on its "How'd They Do That?" program the accomplishments of a mother in New Mexico who educated her ten children at home. Using the kitchen table five days a week from 8:30 a.m. to 11:30 a. m. and the testing procedures of an accredited correspondence school, she permitted no breaks and only Christmas and a few more one-day holidays. Eight of the children had already received high school diplomas by the age of eleven. Six had received their college diplomas by 15. Three more had gone on to receive their masters degrees by 16.

This says something about the character of the mother, but it also talks a whole book about the potential for improvement of our stuck-in-a-rut education. As a postscript to this particular story, two of the home-taught students have been teaching at a community college since they were seventeen - an age that is younger than the students they taught. All of this was at beta. Can you imagine what we are doing at alpha?

Would that the fires within this mother would burn in the leaders of government responsible for education. Perhaps one of the greatest educators in history was the Greek Plato. He was committed to the idea that human beings could be trained to new heights of excellence. However, he said, an enlightened society could not come about unless the highest forms of consciousness were also the highest power. How do we go about that - especially in a democracy?

Getting back to home schooling - a serious option for parents creating a genius - it does not have to be a substitute for formal institutionalized education, but it certainly can be an important supplement. Books are the sources of learning and should be mostly on the subjects necessary for expertise in the chosen field. The atmosphere should be intimate and fun, the testing permissive and free of stress.

So fast is the growth of "home schooling" in the United States that there are now private training centers being formed where home educators can receive on-going guidance on how to proceed. Here they can come together, get to know each other's problems and successes, and in fact learn home schooling in a home schooling· atmosphere. Usually these centers help the parents set time goals and supply administrative discipline to stay on schedule.

What I have heard about is that they give more importance to visualization and imagination than standard schools are currently doing. This means that the right brain is being educated along with the left. Hurray! They must realize that the imagination creates genius and shapes the world.

Some parents may wish to go back to a formal education before starting to augment their child genius' formal education. M. S. of Los Angeles, a Silva Method graduate, regretted she could not help her growing children's education. When they were grown, she enrolled in California State University, with a grant to study bilingual education for preschoolers.

The second semester she enrolled in 42 graduate units – the entire two-year masters program. Using Silva Method techniques, not only did she complete the program in one semester, but she did so with a 4.0 average and college honors!

Here is another personal story. I'm going to let J. K. of Ontario, Canada, tell it in his own words:

"My dealings with the educational system haven't been good. When I was ten years old I failed grade five. I repeated that year; however, my progress did not improve. The Board of Education brought in numerous experts to give me intelligence tests. The so-called 'experts' concluded that I was partially mentally retarded and that my parents should send me to a school to deal with this problem.

"I am happy to say that I will be graduating from Niagara College this spring... from the business department. I always felt, even at an early age, that there must be a way in which people can think to control their lives for the better. I found that true when I took the Silva Method. At one point in my life I did think that I was mentally retarded and that almost ruined my life. The Silva Method has changed my life in helping me to get rid of all the negative input that I received as a child. I just wonder how many of her children this has happened to. Many miracles and great things are happening in my life every day."

Quid erat demonstramus , as mathematicians say at the end of a proof: Silva raises intelligence at any level.

Your child, any child, is within genius range.

I mentioned that some private schools in Guam had adopted the Silva Method program for faculty and students. Here is Sister Bernadette Marie, principal of Guam's Santa Barbara School, providing us a look from the inside:

"Before the end of the 1982-1983 school year…Silva was looking for a second school on the island in which they could introduce their program. I volunteered to take the proposal back to our faculty and parents here at Santa Barbara and seek their approval. After getting the go-ahead from the faculty and parents the teachers attended their first Silva workshop in April of 1983.

"At the beginning of the school year, 1983- 1984, Santa Barbara School offered the Silva Method of learning. Our parents were all invited to meetings at which they were briefed on the Silva Method and were given an opportunity to have any questions answered.

"I believe we have gotten off to a good start with the Silva Method. The relaxation exercises have had a calming effect on our classroom, and I feel this will lead to a healthier lifestyle for our students. The memorization technique gives them a real tool for learning.

"Those teachers who have most used the Silva Method have been pleased with the results. I am hopeful that their success will be an example for the other teachers.

"Silva gives our students an awareness of their potential. This, combined with the teachers support, is a real plus for them on an academic and emotional level."

A few years ago, we decided that it would be convincing to educators to show the effectiveness of only one of the many Silva tools to accelerated learning. We chose the Three Fingers Technique and our Australian coordinator was able to convince the University of Tasmania that it was a worthwhile research project. Net results:

Students who used the Three Fingers Technique raised their test scores by one letter grade. Here is how the research was conducted.

Thirty-four boys and 26 girls attending a typical middle-class high school served as the subjects of the study.

These students took eight school subjects in common, and the marks that they recorded in these subjects at the Term 2 examination were averaged. Students were paired on the basis of these marks, one member of each pair being allocated at random to an experimental group and the other serving as a control.

At the beginning of Term 3, the experimental group learned the Three Fingers Technique. They were asked to use it to help them absorb written material and the information they were given in class.

A week prior to the Term 3 examinations, they were taken through the technique again, particularly as it applied to test taking.

After completion of the Term 3 examinations, the average mark of the eight subjects taken in common by the 60 students was computed. This was compared with that derived from the Term 2 examinations.

Those who had learned the Three Fingers Technique improved nine percentage points, while the control group actually dropped one point.

To put it another way, the experimental group improved their scores 17 per cent over their previous average when they used the Three Fingers Technique.

"From the results of this study," Dr. Harry E. Stanton, faculty supervisor, said, "it would seem reasonable to conclude that the Three Fingers Technique is able to facilitate short-term improvement in second year high school students' examination performance.”

Silva must be doing something right. Still, as we regard education as a vested interest, educators regard us as a commercial interest. And humanity is the loser. In the above instances, we have relinquished our commercial interest. This has helped, but only temporarily.

If there are successful tests of a new vaccine, that particular immunization is on its way to pharmacies quickly and being administered to thousands of patients overnight.

If there is a successful test of the Silva Method at any educational level, it seems to be quickly swept under the table and forgotten. Take this one at Appalachian State University in the late eighties. You could not ask for a better demonstration that the Silva Method activates the right side of the brain. The report is by the research director, George Maycock, Ed.D.

“A group of individuals who participated in the Silva Method were asked to complete three test instruments before and after they completed the training. The three tests were: (1) the HCP Profile Test which determines left- (logical) versus right-brain (intuitive) dominance, (2) the HCP-PSY Test which determines beliefs and experiences about intuition, and (3) The Intuitive Potentials Test which measures an individual's current intuitive potentials. The results of these tests were compared to a control group of thirty individuals who did not take the Silva training but were instead enrolled in an educational course.

"Individuals who completed the Silva training showed a significant increase in scores for all three tests. This showed that they tended to become more right-brain or intuitively oriented, their beliefs became more positive toward intuitive thinking, and their potential for intuitive thinking improved. Individuals in the control group who did not participate in the training showed no significant gains in scores on any of the tests. Of the 30 individuals completing the Silva training, 25 (83 per cent) showed gains in intuitive abilities. Four of the five individuals who did not show intuitive gains were already functioning in a high intuitive mode before the training.

"It was also found that those individuals who were left-brain or logic oriented prior to the training tended to benefit the most, since the Silva training· enabled them to become more intuitively oriented or more balanced in their thinking styles.

"Studies of creative people show that their left- and right-brain hemispheres seem to be integrated, balanced and used more equally. One researcher found that 70 percent of gifted or high IQ students were predominantly intuitive, while only 39 percent of students in regular classes were intuitive. If intuition has been shown to be useful for creativity and success then both teachers and their students need to be trained to fully use their intuitive abilities. The present research study using the Silva Method shows that a training program does exist that can improve right-brain intuitive abilities. This research study was presented at the American Educational Research Association 1988 annual meeting where it was suggested that schools investigate the possibility of including Silva Method training in their curriculum."

That request apparently fell on deaf ears. We are still awaiting their knock on the door.

That knock on the door would bring a visible means of higher education support. But, in its absence, we fortunately have an invisible means of support, that of higher intelligence.

Because I have given you so much background on the lack of support, let me le ad you through an exercise to re-connect you to higher intelligence and its far greater support. You may record what follows or ask somebody to read it to you.

I ask you to sit in a comfortable position and enter your level. I will then have you use the three picture procedure to program for help from the other side, and end by intoning the sound OM.

Use the three to one method to enter your alpha level, with your head lowered. Then use the ten to one countdown to enter your laboratory level; greet your counselors and say the welcome prayer with them.

Now put the book down and proceed. Tell your friend when you are ready, or turn on the recording.

The following are beneficial statements for you and your child. Repeat mentally after me.

My increasing mental faculties and my child's increasing mental faculties are for serving humanity better.

Every day in every way I and my child are getting better, better, and better.

Our positive thoughts bring us benefits and advantages we desire.

We will always maintain a perfectly healthy body and mind.

We are both able to detect information whenever such information is necessary and beneficial to humanity.

Now turn your eyes upward at an angle of about twenty degrees in relation to your face, and visualize yourself on your mental screen. You have a goal to create a genius in your child, but you feel alone. Visualize yourself alone.

Move the mental screen slightly to your left. Visualize yourself again. You are relaxing and doing mental work at the alpha level.

Again move the mental screen slightly to your left. Now you are not alone. Looking down on you, and at you from all sides, are faces etched with wisdom, lined with experience, angelic with beauty, pure with purpose. You realize they represent echelons of intelligence - you and your child's invisible means of invincible support. Send them your light. Send them your love, realizing you are joined with them and by higher intelligence. Acknowledge this oneness by sounding softly but aloud the universal sound OM. With me now, three times, OM-M-M, OM-M-M, OM-M-M.

You and your child may use these levels of mind to help yourself, your loved ones, and any human being who needs help physically and mentally. You and your child will always use these levels of mind in a constructive, creative manner for all that is good, honest, pure, clean, and positive. And this is so.

You will continue to strive to take part in constructive, creative, and genius-creating activities to make this a better world to live in, so that when we move on, we shall have left behind a better world for those who follow. You will consider the whole of humanity, depending on their ages, as fathers or mothers, brothers or sisters, sons or daughters. You are a superior human being; you have greater understanding·, compassion, and patience with others.

Now thank your counselors, say the farewell prayer with them, and count yourself out one to ten and one to five. At the count of five, open your eyes, wide awake, feeling better than before and knowing you have help and support from the other side.

We are approaching the end of Part I, creating a genius in your growing child. In Part II, we start earlier - creating a genius in an as yet unborn child, in fact, earlier than that - creating a genius in an as yet unconceived child.

Those of you who are interested in Part I should also read Part II, as it covers earlier years of your child not covered in Part I.

Similarly, those of you who are starting to create a genius before your child is even conceived should not only read Part II but also Part I as, here too, there are overlapping years containing relevant instructions.

In other words, Part I and Part II are not complete in themselves. Each part needs the other part and each part supplements the other part.

To emphasize this interdependence, I will begin Part II by summarizing the major steps covered by this part. You will, of course, find this a valuable review and thus I politely involve you in Part II.

Without summarizing the major steps now, let me ruminate with you some of the topics we have covered.

Scientists are fact oriented. Any fact, no matter how suspect, is deemed superior to any imaginative exercise no matter how true.

This, by definition, makes scientists left-brain dominated and thus not centered or balanced in their thinking. For this reason, they may not in our lifetime acknowledge the importance of visualization and imagination. So we have decided not to wait for them and we have proceeded with activation of the right brain so as: 1) to be able to use more of our mind, and 2) to be able to tap the creative realm for whatever benefits that higher intelligence can bestow on this troubled world.

When I started research in this direction 50 years ago, my goals were modest. With each success, my goals grew. Now with many millions of Silva Method graduates in one hundred countries providing solutions to problems, correcting health abnormalities, setting and reaching new milestones of progress, I dare to set another goal.

As you create a genius, others see what you have done. They tell their friends. Friends tell friends. Each one tells one or more. The word spreads. Geniuses multiply in geometric progression.

My goal today is to convert the entire population of the world into geniuses.

Don't laugh. First, ask Dr. Rupert Sheldrake, British botanist, how long this might take. His theory of there being a morphogenetic field of intelligence is a concept quite similar to that of a huge computer to which our little mental computers are connected.

These little mental computers are constantly programming the larger computer. As more and more geniuses are created by you and by me, suddenly a critical number is reached when the larger computers wings around and begins in turn to program everybody to be geniuses.

Can you imagine humanity functioning at a genius level of intelligence? Can you understand the scientific chain of events by which this is currently approaching the realm of possibility?

I don't blame you. Neither can I. So let's switch to that other language that sees this happening in non-physical terms.

Let's check the New Testament.

Here is how Jesus described the alpha Level. In putting this before you, I borrow a page from The Jesus Legacy by Robert B. Stone:

The words Jesus used were colorful, enigmatic, poignant - anything but scientific as we know science today. Here are some examples of how he is quoted in the Bible:

"The Kingdom of Heaven is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took and sowed in his field. This indeed is the smallest of all the seeds but when it grows up it is larger than any herb and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come and dwell in its branches."

"The Kingdom of Heaven is like a treasure hidden in a field; he who finds it hides it and in his joy goes and sells all that he has and buys that field."

"The Kingdom of Heaven is like leaven, which a woman took and buried in three measures of flour until all of it was leavened."

"Again, the Kingdom of Heaven is like a merchant in search of fine pearls. When he finds a single pearl of great price, he goes and sells all that he has to buy it."

"Let the little children be, and do not hinder them from coming to me, for of such is the Kingdom of Heaven."

"Amen, I say to you, unless you turn and become like little children, you will not enter into the Kingdom of Heaven."

"Neither will they say, 'Behold, here it is,' or 'Behold, there it is.' Forbehold the Kingdom of God is within you."

"But woe to you, Scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, because you shut the Kingdom of Heaven against man. For you yourselves do not go in, nor do you allow those going in to enter."

"This is why I speak to them in parables, because seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, neither do they understand."

Yes, the alpha level is the Kingdom of God that is within you. Thanks to Jesus, the keys to that kingdom have now been found again.

Thanks to Jesus, I can be a genius. You can be a genius. Your child can be a genius.

And the child you are ready to conceive can be a genius.





Part II



HOW TO CONCEIVE AND BRING FORTH A GENIUS





Chapter 7

JESUS PROMISED: I SEND YOU PROPHETS AND WISE MEN

As stated at the end of Part I, parents who are interested in conceiving and bearing a genius child, should not begin with Part II, but should read Part I because it contains pertinent information for you to follow after your genius is born and is beyond the infant stage.

For both Part I and Part II parents, here is a summary of the major action steps covered so far:

There is a need to study the science that Jesus taught as well as the science of today.

The Silva Method training is a pre-requisite for both Part I and Part II parents - from an accredited lecturer or guided by Appendix A.

The tools provided by the Silva Method training need to be used daily - correcting abnormalities, solving problems, reaching goals.

There is a need to understand the reluctance of both scientists and educators to recognize the importance of the right brain in this left brain world, so that their lack of cooperation will not program you negatively or deter you.

Meditate at alpha about your role as a co-creator and the necessity of creating a genius as your contribution to the salvation of humanity.

Do cases, healing whenever the opportunity occurs.

Build up your own self-esteem by entering alpha and imagining ego- boosting scenes.

Check yourself for readiness, by observing some changes such as increased humor, generosity, adaptability, sensitivity, and spirituality.

Make teachers aware of your intentions to choose a profession or occupation for your child and to supplement school with home teaching. Invite cooperation.

Both parents do subjective forgiveness for each other.

Both parents enter level separately, project into the future, and ask for the proper profession or occupation for this child. Compare notes and make a joint decision.

Teach the child to use Silva Method techniques in the classroom, to enhance memory, learning ability, and cognition.

Parents and child need to help others in order to be eligible for increased help from the other side.

Where applicable, the child should also be instructed to use Silva Method techniques to handle the daily problems of life.

Keep records of the child's guessing ability, administering the cases and scoring the guesses as prescribed.

Increase your own and the child's exposure to experiences involving the chosen profession or occupation in action. Expand this to actual hands-on experience when possible.

Monitor the child's vocabulary and expressions, eliminating limiting or negative words and phrases (mental house cleaning).

Augment classroom with home schooling, as an on-going activity.

Do the parent-child conditioning cycle provided at the conclusion of Chapter 6 either by taping it or with the help of your mate.



Creating a genius with an existing child is at most an eight to ten year program as it starts with a child who has reached the age of seven.

However, there are tips and techniques galore that parents of this child can put to good use even before the age of seven. These are the genius-making steps on the pages ahead that parents of newborns can utilize in the years that follow birth.

I walk with you as we now move on. I am the father of 10 children. I teach from experience. I also teach as a research scientist. And I teach as a co-creator with our Creator.

For the ability to teach as a co-creator I have Jesus to thank He has entered my four-score score years a number of times and in unmistakable ways. These are unforgettable moments in my life.

It was an unforgettable moment in my life when, while being inducted into the Signal Corps during World War II, I was interviewed by a psychiatrist who took the time to explain his profession to me; then at the next stage in the processing I was handed a leaflet "One Solitary Life" - about Jesus.

It was an unforgettable event in my life when through a series of coincidences that started with a dream involving Jesus, I won a prize in the Mexican lottery at a time when the money - $10,000 - was essential to my research.

It was an unforgettable moment in my life when, frustrated by all I had to learn about psychology, I decided to stop my research into the human mind. Within a few minutes, one of my children who had been playing in the rain, came in with a dry picture of Jesus that had just blown into our yard.

It was an unforgettable moment in my life when, lecturing at the University of Puerto Rico in 1972 on how Jesus was a master in his field able to heal, do away with pain, and stop bleeding in himself and others, when a man interrupted.

"Why did he bleed and suffer pain on the cross?"

You could hear a pin drop in the audience. A message came to me which I recognized as having roots in the Bible: Don't prepare what you are to say - it will come as you need it. So I simply answered the man.

"To me, the greatness of Christ was manifested when he chose to suffer like any common being though he really did not have to."

I still remember how that silence was shattered by a thunderous applause. I really did not deserve it. The answer was from a higher intelligence.

It came to me just as the Bible said it would because my right brain was active - working for me. The right brain is our connection to higher intelligence.

Jesus understood that fact, albeit maybe not in those anatomical terms. He taught how to activate it, albeit not in terms of meditation, relaxation, and brain frequency. He taught what the benefits would be once you activated it, but these benefits were so great his contemporaries did not grasp them.

It was as if today you and I were listening to a politician seeking election and promising us heaven on earth. What else is new.

Matthew quotes Jesus in Chapter 4, Verse 17, as saying, "Repent, for the Kingdom of Heaven is at hand." Jesus might use different words today - more like, "Take notice. Everybody can now reach the dimension where impossible problems can be solved."

Or, as the candidate for election might boast, "I promise a new car in every garage and a chicken in every pot."

Even if religionists had an inkling of what Jesus had in mind, they would be unlikely to spread the word around. They have built a church with prestige and power. Give power take power from the church.to the people and you take power from the church.

I don't want to place guilt on religionists, but I often pause to ask Jesus' forgiveness for taking two thousand years to understand his message.

I have made my mission in life to further Jesus' mission. And I have been receiving enough signs of confirmation that I am convinced I have not only made the right choice but I am on the right track.

How do you know you are on the right track?

If you work on a project and you encounter a problem, you solve the problem. We have tools in the Silva Method to help do that, of course. After solving the problem, you continue moving forward.

When you encounter the next problem, you solve it also. The question is, how difficult was it to solve? If it was twice as difficult to solve as the first problem, that is not good. If it was only half as difficult to solve, that's good. After solving it, you continue moving forward with your project.

When you encounter the next problem, you solve it. Once again, how difficult was it to solve the problem? If the problems are getting more difficult to solve each time, this is a sign that you are going in the wrong direction. Re-examine your goal.

If you are moving in the correct direction, then each problem should only be half as difficult to solve, until pretty soon, you are moving forward with your project with little difficulty.

I took Jesus on his word. He said, "I send you prophets and wise men." Sure enough he did.

After 22 years of research into the functions of the mind, I created prophets and wise men by the scores. Using bio-feedback devices, electronic meters, brain encephalographs, and other modern scientific equipment, I found how to go to the Kingdom of Heaven within.

Using the prophets and wise men created by the Silva Method, I put them to work to heal, reach goals, solve creative problems - in Jesus' words, functioning within God's righteousness.

Hallelujah! When the prophets and wise men emerged from the alpha level, the illnesses were healed, the goals were reached, and the solutions worked. Again, using Jesus' words, "All things will be done unto you." They were!

These scores have been joined by millions more. All are receiving help from the other side or whatever you feel comfortable about calling higher intelligence.

I feel comfortable with the concept that there are beings, souls, entities, or energies on the other side that have been assigned to help us, pretty much as we create counselors for our psychic laboratory to help us. We meet the other side halfway.

After all, how can these being communicate with us ?

They are spiritual (non-physical) beings. They can't talk with us or touch us, or even see us for that matter - those are all physical senses.

It seems that they can communicate with us through the use of visualization and imagination. They are working with many other people, too. So, when we are moving in the right direction, everything goes smoothly. When we are moving in the wrong direction, going against the grain, things do not go so smoothly. It is like trying to paddle upstream.

When we ask a question of our counselors to help us solve a problem, the answer comes. It does not come in the form of a voice saying, “Well, my friend, here is what you should do." But still it comes. It is as if you got the idea on your own. Sometimes you feel you guessed. That is the right feeling. It may feel like you guess, but it belongs to the other side's assigned being. It is transmitted, either through your counselor or direct, via the intelligence that fills all space.

The Creator in his loving wisdom gave us all free will and the freedom of choice. In my opinion the Creator insists on only one compulsory activity and that is to work in the physical dimension to make this a better world to live in. Within this large overall plan for us, we are free to make individual career choices.

In Part I, parents of living· children were instructed how to intuitively make the choice for their children whom they were programming to be geniuses.

Now, in Part II, would-be parents of geniuses are going to be instructed how to get help from the other side to determine the profession or occupation of the genius-to-be-conceived. But their answer is requested to be based on what planet earth will need most in eighteen to twenty years. In other words, what profession or occupation will be most critical then in carrying out the master plan - to make this a better world to live in.

When the profession or occupation is decided, learning begins in that field. This may be immediately where the child is seven or older, or that many years later for the unborn child. Either way, such learning becomes the fuel for genius.

Abigail Adams is quoted in Readers Digest as saying, "Learning is not attained by chance. It must be sought for with and attended to with diligence." She is right as far as the left brained public goes. But Silva Method graduates can come into learning by what frequently appears to happen by chance. They meet people who bring up the right topic at the right time, or someone recommends the right book. Or through some synchronicity, just what they need to know arrives in the mail.

No, Abigail Adams, learning is not attained by chance. It is often arranged by the other side. By the way, my issue of Readers Digest arrived a few hours ago.

They say there ra e two kinds of geniuses - the ordinary ones and the magicians. With the Silva Method, we create the magician kind of genius. Not that they pull rabbits out of hats, but they can save the bacon, reach a safe harbor, save the day, do the impossible, tread sure ground, take names off the critical list, defy danger and come out smelling like roses.

The reason Silva geniuses are the magician kind is that their spiritual aspects are involved - their very souls. They are not geniuses by cramming knowledge in but by leading it out. They are attuned via the right brain to the other side of reality where the amount of intelligence that exists is beyond our ability to comprehend.

When you get right down to it, in test taking, by accepted educational standards, our geniuses cheat.

In test taking at primary, secondary, or higher education levels, help from your fellow student across the aisle is forbidden, so is help from any reference smuggled into the room. Our geniuses, when taking tests, bring a huge source of reference material with them - their helpers on the other side.

Silva geniuses are magicians also because, as balanced thinkers, they are less the errant youth and more the mellow philosophers. They look past the temptations of the material world and surmount adversity as if it did not exist.

Another area in which Silva geniuses are the magician kind is in health matters. The mind runs the body. If you have a superior mind, you have a superior body.

I don't mean a superior body in left brain terms. That kind of superior body gets its superiority from barbells, weights, and body building machines. Bulging biceps and muscle curls come from swinging and lunging with dumbbells - a name I find singularly suitable.

No, the superior Silva body developed by our geniuses has no pronounced external appearance, but rather an internal state pronounced - healthy. Their high level of wellness is due to such abilities as:

Control of any tendency to compulsive behavior.

Non-stressed reactions to otherwise stressful events.

Skill in mind - body communication.

Intuitive understanding of the causes of abnormal conditions.

Programming at alpha to restore normality.



Overriding these abilities is a wholeness of the individual. The Silva genius is not all body, not all mind, not all spirit, but rather a balance and wholeness of the individual induced by balanced right and left brain thinking.

These had to be the wise men and prophets that Jesus was talking about. Certainly he was not talking about our government leaders - look at where they have lead us. Certainly he was not talking about church leaders - they have lead us in circles. Certainly he was not talking about sports leaders – touchdowns, knockouts, baskets, and goals have not taught us how to win the game of life. Certainly he was not talking about educational leaders - they have taught us to live with one arm tied behind our back, working with only our left brain, figuratively speaking. Certainly he was not talking about the world's great writers, artists, dramatists, architects, inventers, industrials, and businessmen - who have given a civilization uncivil to the Creator himself.

You may not hear about the accomplishments of Silva geniuses on the air waves, in books, or in the headlines. They are largely self-effacing, preferring to be one with all society and hierarchy. They seek to make this a better world to live in, but they do not seek the credit for doing that.

They are rewarded by this side and by the other side. They have peace of mind, fulfilling human relationships, their needs met - and money to boot.

You would think that these geniuses would be admired by all of humanity. However, all of humanity appears to be divided into two camps: The fundamentalists and the transformationals. The two do not agree on how to understand the world's diverse spiritual traditions or on the existence of genius-like human potential or on meditative practices as a means to self-development.

Voices in both camps are perpetually at each other's throats, debating, criticizing, warning. There are new periods of progress, followed inevitably by backlash. The history of Silva Method's progress over the past quarter century has been a microcosm of controversy in this controversial macrocosm.

When the dust settles, I am sure there will be geniuses at work solving the problem - Silva Method geniuses. But we will not be able to prove our part in that solution.

There is no objective instrument to detect the mind or measure human intelligence. That's because the mind exists and functions in a subjective, non- physical dimension. Its existence is taken for granted by scientists.

Theologians call human intelligence, the soul, or spirit. But in physics, the soul is the shape and form of things, and spirit is the energy of matter. So calling it human intelligence prevents confusion.

It is easy to figure that if humans, from now on, are not taught to use their intuitive right brain hemisphere to think with, we are on the verge of destroying the means for this planet to sustain life. We are poisoning the water we drink and the air we breathe; and we are interfering with the life-giving rays of the sun.

It could take generations to stop the deterioration of the planet, turn around this process and correct our mistakes so that the planet can be saved and become the paradise that it should be. We must start now. We must teach people to think differently, to use their right brain, to strengthen their spiritual factor, and to receive guidance through intuition from the other side, where high intelligence that governs the universe resides.

Jesus found the cause of the man's killing and destruction. And he found a solution: Go to the Kingdom of Heaven within; function within God's righteousness; and all things will be done unto you. This solution Jesus promised would produce prophets and wise men.

Now that science has discovered what Jesus meant there is no excuse why we all should not: Enter the alpha level; heal, set goals, solve problems; and see it all happen. This solution, I promise will produce geniuses.

A New Jersey minister who had taken the Silva Method training had a new church built by his congregation. Money was included in the budget for ceiling frescoes with religious themes. This art was to be on canvases that were then to be affixed to the ceilings.

When this art arrived, all attempts to glue these canvasses to the ceiling· failed. They just would not remain up. Glue had to be used so that the art could be removed if necessary without damage. Now the minister was faced with an embarrassing situation - money spent on art that could not be used. He decided to seek an answer with the Silva Dream Control Technique - asking for a dream that contained information he could use to solve that problem. Before falling asleep that night, he entered his alpha level and asked for such a dream, using the formula he had been taught.

He awoke in the morning with a vivid recollection of a dream in which he was on a ladder, pasting the canvasses on the church ceiling with Elmer's Glue and then using a hot iron on them. He was not too hopeful that this dream information would work, as he had already tried Elmer's Glue. But he decided to follow through.

As he placed a hot iron on the canvas, pressing· it to the ceiling, he heard a sizzling sound. The glue held. The canvases are probably still on that church ceiling.

Would anybody in his right mind think of ironing to make glue stick? It was totally non-logical, non-rational.

This world has been run on logical, rational thought processes. It has given us television, super-sonic travel, and facsimile transmission. It has given us computers that also run on logical, rational thought processes. Where has all of this logic and rationality taken us?

It has not taken us where we need to go!

We need to add to this conscious thinking some of the thinking that is done out of range of our conscious mind. That conscious thinking is only a small fraction of our potential for thought. Reach into the unconscious and you tap limitless thought.

Some of this treasure is in the subconscious mind where past experiences and learning are stored. But by far the greater part of this treasure is in the superconscious mind that we have been calling higher intelligence.

The limitless thinking that the superconscious mind is capable of can yield an abundance of what appears to our consciousness to be non-logical and non-rational. Such thinking can make scientists cringe but geniuses revel.

One is objective thinking. It uses the left brain to be logical and rational.

The other is subjective thinking. It uses the right brain to transcend logic and reason, time and space, and the limits of conscious thinking. It relies on imagination and visualization, intuition, and ESP, to bring answers from higher intelligence.

We need both kinds of thinking. When you create a genius, you create an objective-subjective thinker.

Are you and your mate ready to prepare to conceive a genius? By "ready" I mean: Have you taken all the Part I action steps spelled out on the first page of this chapter? If so, here is your first action step of Part II.

You and your mate should enter your laboratory levels by the usual 3 to 1, 10 to 1 method. Greet your counselors. Say the welcome prayer with them. Then tell your counselors of your intention to soon conceive a genius child. Thank them for their past help and elicit their help in this project. Pause and let any ideas or feelings come. Then thank your counselors and say the farewell prayer. In this farewell prayer, thank higher intelligence for the right being to be born to you in your creating of a genius. End your session feeling wide awake and better than before.

While you are doing this preparatory communication with the other side, I am doing likewise. I am thanking Rabbi Jesus for showing us the way.





Chapter 8

WHAT PARENTS MUST DO BEFORE AND AFTER CONCEPTION

This book could have started earlier in your life. I could have insisted that you take the Silva Method training before you chose a mate. You would then be clairvoyant in your choice, using the right brain hemisphere to be intuitive, prophetic, and correct.

Non-clairvoyants, when selecting a partner, are only 20 percent accurate in their choice. No wonder there are so many divorces. On the other hand, practicing clairvoyants can be 80 percent accurate or better on their selection. This of course helps you to be compatible and happy with your lifetime partner.

People who practice living together before marriage manifest the absence of any decision making with the use of either brain hemisphere. Some keep on changing partners until maybe they find the right one. Some animals have better systems than this. Ninety percent of humanity appears to be non-clairvoyant, using only the non-clairvoyant left brain hemisphere to think with.

Mistakes in choosing a mate can lead to mate abuse, violence, alcoholism, financial difficulties, infidelity, and more unhappiness than the happiness intended.

Can you imagine the mistakes that can be made in conceiving and bearing a child by left-brain parents? Well, you don't have to imagine it. Look around you. Look at the knifings in school, the gang warfare, the teenage crime, the high school pregnancies, the early experimentation with alcohol, tobacco, and drugs, the drop-outs.

These problems are the compounded results of left-brain marriages leading to left-brain conceptions.

We did not get to you and your mate to correct left brain domination before you were married, but we have corrected any resultant problems by having you both take the Silva Method training and then do an alpha level forgiveness - subjective mental forgiveness.

This is an absolute requirement. No couple is to pass this point in creating a genius until these two steps have been completed by both partners.

With these steps completed, you are shining lights. The most advanced souls will be attracted to the fetus the two of you create. The two of you together with your genius child-to-be are the answer to the problems of the world.

You and your mate, being both trained in the Silva Method, are both clairvoyant. You have discussed having a child - or another child. You are both reading these pages because you are agreed that this child you are planning to have shall be a genius.

You now need to use your clairvoyant ability to look ahead fifteen years to see what skill will help the world most.

If your genius child is a wizard in mathematical skills, such skills may no longer be needed in the light of a computerized society. You need to use your clairvoyance to look ahead 15 years and pinpoint critical professions. Why 15 years? Because your genius will be educated in special ways so that by the time he or she is 15, education will be accomplished to the doctorate level and your genius will be ready to enter the work force.

Will this be a critical time in terms of world diplomacy? Will diplomats with special skills be needed, or politicians with communication abilities, or consultants in international trade relations?

Will this be a critical time in world health? Will medical doctors be in demand who have keen insights into the mind-body connection, or natural remedies, or allopathic innovations?

Will this be a critical time in business? Will business specialists be needed who are geniuses in demand-supply formulae, in labor-management relations, or in cash flow and inventory control?

Your genius must be in the right place at the right time with the right skills. As clairvoyants, you and your mate are in possession of the controls. Here is how to use them.

You need to use these controls separately. You need to enter your alpha level at the same time but at a sufficient distance apart so that you do not influence each other's results.

Papa and mama need to be separated from one another by a distance greater than 100 feet. This is so that the body's radiated energy fields are not in contact with one another physically.

This radiation, called the aura, extends approximately eight meters, or about 25 feet, in all directions from the body. Being only 50 feet away from one another means that the edges of the auras are touching each other, and can influence the thoughts of the other. So to keep this from happening, to be doubly safe so as not to influence each other, it is best to stay 100 feet apart.

So mama and papa should separate themselves before they enter the alpha level, their clairvoyant level, to determine what the child's occupation should be, the child that they plan to conceive. Both parents are likely to reach the same conclusion.

Let's suppose that this was done. After being separated by a distance of 100 feet, each entered the clairvoyant level (the Kingdom of Heaven that Jesus talked about where he developed prophets and wise men) and projected into the future. They could both arrive at the same conclusion.

However, there are a number of critical jobs to do on earth at any one moment in time and these two clairvoyants may tap into different ones. They must then try again. This time they might ask for a number of priorities and see later where they overlap.

Let's suppose that they both concluded that more medical doctors will be needed. Then papa and mama now know that they need to conceive a medical doctor.

The next step is for papa and mama to enter the clairvoyant level together. Once at level, they talk to each other about conceiving a medical doctor. They discuss the pros and cons. They converse about the area of expertise.

Once they are in agreement, they both start working together, cooperating, in selecting the features that the child would have.

Mama might suggest that she would like for her son or daughter to have blue eyes like her grandfather. Papa might describe what hair his son or daughter would have.

This may seem to be irrelevant to the genius factor, but it is quite relevant to the offspring factor. The parents-to-be will be programming both for a genius and for an infant that will be compatible, an infant that will fit into the family in every way.

They should not try to select the sex of the child, but let the selection be done by higher intelligence. The intelligence that resides on the other side, where we came from and where we go back to when we die, controls the entire universe. It will make the selection and keep the proper balance of males and females on the planet.

It is said that basically human, and some animals, satisfy their mating needs with only one partner. In times when only the males went to war and millions were killed, the majority of conceptions were males, to bring the population back into balance. The balance of males to females stays close to 50- 50 in normal times. That means one male for one female. If we change this male to female balance, we get into trouble so do not try to select the sex.

Both parents should also be spending some related time daily imagining the genius offspring functioning as a successful, clairvoyant, mature adult. What is different about a clairvoyant physician or health care practitioner? Mentally picture the genius that is about to be conceived functioning in that way.

The clairvoyant doctor can diagnose at a distance without even talking to the patient and be more correct than most doctors are today. Laboratory tests can be by-passed as the clairvoyant doctor can be more accurate than laboratory instruments. The non-clairvoyant doctor must interpret laboratory instruments with his or her objective senses. These have perception limitations and can err. The mental senses of a clairvoyant have no perception limitations and cannot be deceived.

Furthermore, a clairvoyant doctor can heal at a distance, be r.1ore accurate in prescribing medication, and avoid the temptation of high professional fees in deciding for or against surgery.

A clairvoyant physician who practices psychiatry can project into patient's dreams or hallucinations to analyze the problem. This physician can, from a distance, mentally regress the patient to find the root of the problem.

These are mental images that both parents should be enjoying daily while relaxed, once they have selected the occupation and physical looks of their genius soon to be conceived.

If the occupation decided upon was diplomat or other positions of government leadership, mentally picture the clairvoyant diplomat or government leader in action. He or she is able to project into the future and detect what the needs of the people will be so that they can be ready when that need arrives, They will be able to detect the plans of other countries' government leaders, thus eliminating wars by removing the elements of suspicion and surprise.

Will your genius be a law enforcement officer? As a clairvoyant, he or she will be able to go back in time to know the details of a crime, to know how to identify and take into custody all criminals who are violating the Creator's work.

Will your genius be an engineer? Clairvoyant petroleum engineers and geologists can dowse for minerals and resources without the use of a divining rod. They can know how deep the oil or other materials are plus their quantity and quality. Uri Geller, a psychic genius, left the entertainment stage and, in a few short years, made a fortune using his clairvoyant abilities in this way.

Will your genius be an industrialist? Then daydream about him or her manufacturing the very products that will be in demand and doing so in an efficient, cost-effective way.

The clairvoyant executive will be able to neutralize stress, maintain health, and select exactly the right people for the right jobs. Then decisions will be uncannily accurate. Financiers will multiply funds like magic and will put those funds back to work to improve conditions on the planet.

Clairvoyant farmers and ranchers are able to work with nature in intuitive ways that defy logical reasoning. Crops flourish, weather conditions are foreseen and prepared for, even artificial insemination has a higher percentage of takes making for a more economical venture.

So, there is a period of time when you both, as parents-to-be of a genius, daydream about the future accomplishments of your clairvoyant offspring. To do this visualization without defining the sex of the genius would have been a difficult task some years ago. But with today's unisex styles in clothes and coiffure, it is a simpler matter. Instead of picturing a male or female, you picture the unisex person functioning as a genius.

We humans are doubly faulted for the conditions of humanity on planet earth. First, we have not recognized the sacred mission of Rabbi Jesus the Christ who came to save us from suffering because of our ignorance in not using what God has given us to use: The right brain hemisphere, our connection to God.

Second, our parents and teachers have reinforced this error because of this same ignorance.

It is not only on the battlefields and in the prisons and hospitals that we see the results of this ignorance.

A car stalls. The driver of a second car behind it honks the horn persistently. The driver of the stalled car gets out and shoots the driver of the second car. A left brain act.

Two people in a restaurant finish their coffee. There is an argument over whose turn it is to pay. End result: One dead by stabbing. A left brain act.

A neighbor's dog destroys some flowering plants. The women argue. The husbands return from work and continue the argument. End result: One dead man, one jailed, and two women left to raise families on their own. A left brain tragedy.

The above participants are not the only ones at blame. Where were you and I? Why did not the drivers of other cars assist the stalled driver and calm the horn blower? Why did not other patrons in the restaurant offer to pay for the coffee? Why didn't other neighbors offer to replace the flowering plants? These would have been right brain acts. And they would have saved the day.

We need to become geniuses ourselves and we need to create other geniuses. if we are to be as our Creator intended us to be.

So you must not only create genius in yourself which you did earlier by activating your right hemisphere, and you must not only create a genius in your forthcoming child, you must carry the torch of genius to your family, your neighbors, your business associates. You need to set your world on fire with genius.

I say this before I give you the okay to go to bed, because the more ignited you are at the prospects of creating a genius, the more quickly you are likely to conceive.

Every cell in your body knows your thoughts and feelings. The woman's reproductive system responds. The male reproductive system responds. Both reproductive systems are honored to be given one of the Creator's top priorities - to make planet earth a better place to live.

You are now both ready to consummate the sex act. The wife is now ready to conceive.

Would you like to predict when the education of this forthcoming child will begin. Three years old? Four? Five? The answer is: As soon as you know there is a pregnancy.

At first there is no electrical brain activity measurable from the embryo and no heartbeat detectable. When these activities begin, the embryo has been occupied by a soul. This usually takes place before the wife has missed one or two menstrual periods and knows she is pregnant.

How can an embryo be educated? It is even easier now than later.

We used to think that the embryo was without senses, consciousness, or intelligence, and was oblivious to what was happening outside of the mother's womb.

Now we know differently. We know that every thought we think and every word we think is shared with the child-to-be. If Cleve Backster can monitor an adult's mouth cell and see it react to that adult's thought, it makes sense to realize an organism can do as well.

It not only makes sense, it makes trouble. Therapists in several fields are now seeking the causes of personality disorders and anti-social behavior back in the time when the client was an embryo in his other mother's womb.

Hypnoanalysis can take you back in time to childhood, to infancy, to fetus. Re-birthing goes back in time to trigger recollection of fetus days. Some psychologists specialize in the period between conception and birth in their search for causes of problems.

Are you ready to begin the education of your genius-fetus? First, what we should not teach in the usual classroom.

You interrupt me. "Wait a minute," you say. "I know society wants to rush children through childhood. Society wants kids to grow up more quickly. It offers them all kinds of advantages and rewards for being more adult-like. But I want my children to play, to make believe, to be more childlike."

"Wait a minute yourself," I reply, "I'm on your side. Jesus said that even you and I should be as little children. What you are forgetting is that society is, and its government are, rushing children through childhood to get out of having to be care takers. Taking care of left brain teenagers is a losing proposition. I don't blame them. On the other hand, your child-in-the-womb is a right brain - left brain human. He or she will always be a child. No matter how early or how fast you educate this embryo, this infant-to-be, this boy or girl, this teenager-to-be, there will always be childlike qualities. The innocence, playfulness, and genuineness will be indestructible."

I am glad to see that you are relieved. Shall we begin? First, what we should not teach the embryo.

We should be more disciplined about our thoughts. It is so easy to lie in bed and think about whether you are doing right to create a genius. You can turn the problem over in your mind a hundred times before you fall asleep. But what about the embryo? How does the embryo feel? Can you imagine how you would feel if you heard your Creator saying over and over again, Do I want this person or not? Do I want you or not?

I have spelled out the most dangerous example of what not to teach the embryo. Other negative thoughts, silent or spoken, may not be as destructive but if frequent enough can cause a climate that is not conducive to a healthy body and a healthy mind. Of course, I'm referring to any negative, pessimistic, or hateful thoughts.

They also can cause psychological problems later or even a miscarriage now. "I picked the wrong parents. I want out."

Ideally, you and your mate are joyous, optimistic, and creative. You know your gestating child is a genius. You know that you and your mate are both geniuses. The two of you should mentally or aloud repeat the Silva genius statement that you used in the training. Use the word "we" to include the child you are creating. It goes like this:

"The difference between genius mentality and lay mentality is that geniuses use more of their minds and use them in a special manner. We are able to use more of our minds and to use them in a special manner."

You might add, "Our genius mentality is for serving humanity better."

Other Silva beneficial statements that you and your spouse can mentally or orally repeat from time to time include:

Every day, in every way, we are getting better, better, and better.

Positive thoughts bring us benefits and advantages we desire.

We will always maintain perfectly healthy bodies and minds.



You do not have to limit your beneficial statements to those in the Silva Method training. Any statements that either of you make aloud or mentally with the embryo in mind that are positive, creative, encouraging, loving, and enthusiastic are productive and meaningful to the three of you, most of all the embryo.

These statements can be your usual ones. "Have a good day." "I love you.” "What beautiful flowers!"

Or your statements might be more like affirmations:

Higher intelligence assists our intelligence with solutions and answers.

We grow daily in our own self-worth and self-esteem.

Each day, we are better able to love and be loved.



Making up your own positive thoughts and statements spontaneously is even more effective than using those you have memorized. Spontaneous communication has more life "voltage." It is not ersatz. It is the real thing. It is you.

These statements and affirmations, said mentally or aloud, are said at beta not alpha. They are words. Words are beta, left brain. When you use thoughts in image form, you need to go to alpha. Visualization and imagination are alpha, right brain.

When father communicates with the fetus, either objectively with words at beta, or subjectively with visualization and imagination at alpha, he should be within a few feet of mother. He must not assume that his objective or subjective is getting through. Instead, he must consciously direct the message to the fetus.

Occasionally, either parent should enter the alpha level and put the fetus on the mental screen. Send feelings of love and support.

Reviewing post-conception activities:

Parents monitor their thoughts and conversations to keep them positive, creative, and optimistic.

Parents should occasionally repeat the Silva Method genius statement and other Silva beneficial statements mentally or aloud, directing them at the fetus.

Parents should do the same daily with positive affirmations, the more original and spontaneous the better.

Parents should enter their level daily and put the fetus on their mental screen sending feelings of love and support.



Wait, there is more. You have homework to do.

You have clairvoyantly selected the profession or occupation for your genius that will most benefit humanity in the years ahead. You need to read up on this profession or occupation in newspapers, periodicals, and books. There are two reasons for this:

You will be conducting home study learning for your genius-child later.

You will be programming this information into the fetus' mind now.



Keep a scissors handy to clip any pertinent items you come across in your daily assignment of keeping up with the world. Later, mother re-reads these items with the intention of transmitting this information directly to the fetus in her womb. When father reads these or other clipped items, he positions himself within a few feet of mother and also reads with the intention of transmitting this information directly to the fetus in mother's womb.

Both parents have the choice of reading aloud or mentally to themselves and the fetus.

Media clippings are usually non-technical for the lay person. This is the way it should be at this stage. Information transmitted to the growing fetus early in the game should be basic and simple. It acts as a foundation for more advanced and technical learning later.

When selecting books at a store or library, stick to the basics again. Ask the bookstore clerk or the librarian if the book is meant for lay per sons. Avoid advanced or technical works. After all, you have to understand it, too, if your fetus is to benefit from it.

Both of you follow the same procedure with books: Read at beta. Read mentally or aloud. Direct the thoughts you read at the fetus. Father reads within a few feet of mother.

It goes without saying, mother should be under the care of an obstetrician during pregnancy and childbirth. Professional monitoring and guidance is always advisable. Follow your doctor's counseling regarding diet, sleep, and activities in order to give your child-to-be-born the best possible physical foundation.

About a month before childbirth, mother should begin the mental preparation to make the birthing as smooth and painless as possible.

Here are three of the preparations at alpha you can benefit from:

Tell yourself at alpha that each contraction triggers a condensing of time and that each end of contraction triggers and extension of time. Follow this thought with a mental picture showing yourself in easy labor. A clock indicates the contractions to be much less than a minute, perhaps just a few seconds, and the rest periods in between to be quite a few minutes.

Tell yourself at alpha that every time you put your three fingers together of both hands, the birthing process moves along easier and easier.

Use the three pictures on your mental screen. Picture yourself experiencing the first childbirth pains. Move the picture slightly to the left. You have your three fingers together of both hands, and the birth process is going smoothly. You move the picture slightly to the left again. A beautiful infant is being held up for you to see.



It’s right to be thinking of yourself and making the process as painless and easy for you as possible. But why not do the same for the baby. Just the way you have been communicating with the baby in the past nine months, have a pre-birth talk in your own mental or spoken words. Tell the baby that the birthing process will be smooth and successful, that he or she will be made warm and comfortable, and that you look forward to seeing it, holding it, and feeding it soon.

That concludes my pre-natal instructions. And now…

A genius is born.





Chapter 9

PROCEDURE AFTER BIRTH AND BEFORE SCHOOL

The birthing room of your genius may need some modification over the usual bright lights and rough toweling. Standard procedures can be traumatic to the infant making transition from the warm moistness of the womb to the harsh impact of the physical world.

In hospital conditions, this is not easy. Doctors and nurses have a standard procedure genius or not, and are not easy to convince that a change is indicated in your case.

The changes that you should try to swing are: The shading of lights, a warm temperature, gentler handling, absence of loud noises, and the use of flannel instead of terry cloth or similar coarse toweling.

To understand the need to soften the transition, imagine if you went from your town to another town where a job awaited you. On arrival, nothing was the same. The weather was unbearable to the point you could hardly breathe. Everyone was a stranger. You had to wear the uniform of the company and it made you sore from head to foot. Your office lights were spotlights that almost blinded you. And nobody told you what you were supposed to do.

How much work would you get done that first day? The second day? Third? It would probably take you quite a while to adjust to this new town. You would have been way ahead if you had stayed in your hometown.

Your infant genius needs consideration at birth. The material world must not make a bad first impression. The infant will eventually get over it and move ahead, as all infants do. But why subject this special baby to a bad first impression of the material world.

In the first minutes of birth, the mother needs to hold the infant. This physical bonding helps to improve the infant's attitude toward the physical world. The smells and sounds and touches of mother are welcome reminders of the womb's security. Father should talk to the baby, perhaps saying some of the same things he said during gestation.

In the days following birth, while mother is resting up from her labor, and father is recuperating from the "shell shock," I would like to refresh your understanding of the functions of the right brain.

The reason I do this now is so that you can win the tug-of-war that is about to take place. Your infant is centered in its thinking. Brain wave frequencies are slow. The right brain is likely to be as active as the left, possibly even more so. However, as the days go by, your infant will be setting up more and more left brain points of reference.

First, the sight of father creates another human point of visual reference. There is father and there is mother. Next, the little hand goes out and touches the sheet and the side of the bassinet. More tactile points of reference. The finger goes in the mouth; the sheet goes in the mouth. Taste points of reference.

These are all physical, left brain points of reference. As the days, weeks, and months go by, the infant experiences more and more of the physical world, which means that the left brain is endowed with more and more ability to function. The wet diaper, the hunger, the stuffed toy, the rattle, mother's breast, the bottle's nipple, the smell of flowers, the noises of traffic, a dog's bark, or a bird's song - these are left brain stimulants.

That's fine. We want the left brain to be stimulated. But we want both brains to be stimulated. We don't want the left brain to ever become so dominant in thinking that it eclipses the right brain.

Ergo: We need to supply right brain points of reference, and, to do this, we need to know the right brain's job description - the areas that interest the right brain, rather than the left brain, so we can provide experiences in those areas.

Here, for your guidance, are some right brain pointers:

Pictures on the walls around the crib, in view of the infant lying in the crib.

Colors in materials used or in view.

Fishbowl or bird cage nearby.

Music playing - preferably classical.

Music box.

Hanging mobile.



As you see, we begin with music and art related attention getters. These are quite simple at first, then opening up to a more varied selection after a few months.

Our genius-infants are both early and long on picture books. Play music at picture book time; at first, the same music is played for a particular picture book. Later, anything goes.

Every infant is different. As yours grows, you will observe what makes the infant seem to go into a state of rapture or self-interest. Observe if there has been a particular trigger - colors, sounds, etc. Then see how you can repeat these from time to time.

Create an object of fantasy or affection that can be used as a transitional object later. A teddy bear or a baby blanket, treasured by the infant now, can be used when the child is approaching teen-age. Even a particular smell associated with daily living - perhaps some herb tea - will later be useful as a transitional object to slow down brain waves toward the slow delta rate they are now and thus be a tonic for the right brain.

It is good to mix music, art, and feelings all at one time. The reason for this is that the right brain thrives on unity. In fact, it conceives the oneness in all differences, while the left brain thrives on differences, especially polarity - pairs of opposites. So, as you avoid having periods of art, and periods of music, and instead you have periods of art and music together, you are appealing to the right brain's leaning toward wholeness instead of separateness.

Positive feelings are the best of all right brain turn-ons. The mother's smiling face, the cooing voice, the words of love. To the baby, these are expressions of encouragement and of welcome.

Behavior and attitude of both parents, both in pregnancy and after birth, can have a lasting effect on the child later and even after adulthood. A classic example is the woman who always felt alienated toward her mother. Hypnotic regression disclosed that the mother had been worried during pregnancy because it was 1944 and the allies were bombing Berlin where she lived. The fetus felt this concern as rejection.

Experiments with plants show that they respond to your thoughts of love and grow better. Try an experiment with mung bean sprouts. Place some seeds in two separate glasses. Place the same amount of water in each. Tilt them against the wall for drainage at the same angle. For the next twenty-four hours, whenever you think of the sprouts, love the right hand glass, ignore the left hand glass. Then check the progress of their growth. The right hand glass sprouts will be an inch or so longer than the left hand glass.

One farmer did a test with two separate acres of wheat on different sides of the road. Every morning when he awoke, he sent loving thoughts of encouragement and support to one acre, but not the other. At the end of the growing season, the acre that was loved showed six inches more growth than the other.

With a baby, mental growth accompanies physical growth.

Growth comes with challenge but not with frustration. There is a fine line between the two and parents, especially of a genius, need to discern between the two. Take a moment to reflect on your feelings when things go wrong. Do you feel depressed? Or do you feel irritable? These adult reactions could be a result of infant behavior patterns according to recent research conducted by staff members at the Wood Johnson Medical School in New Jersey.

Babies were equipped with strings tied to their wrists. When they moved their hands, they activated a mobile of a baby's face and the Sesame Street Theme. When the string was deactivated and movement of the hands no longer activated the mobile, the babies' joy turned either into anger or sadness. When the control was restored, the angry babies regained the joy, but those who had reacted with sadness never fully regained their initial enthusiasm.

An example of challenge rather than frustration might be holding a rattle just out of reach. As the child attempts to reach it, that's challenge - a healthy event. But if you pull the rattle back or hold it too far out of reach, that's frustrating - a possibly unhealthy event.

Crying is one of the infant's sole survival tools. Hunger, pain, discomfort are all announced to the parents via vocal energy. However. the infant soon learns it can use it when it prefers light to dark and company to solitude.

A genius infant is no exception. It probably learns to use crying as a means to control the parents even sooner. Giving in to the infant at these times is no demonstration of genius on the parents' part and therefore more of a dampener than a stimulant to intelligence.

Genius parents need to know that the infant is fed. warm, dry. and comfortable. If crying occurs right after this checkup, it is the "boss" ringing for his or her "servants" to appear. Act the part today and you must do an encore tomorrow. Resist and the infant soon gets the message. From then on, crying can be depended on to be a sincere need.

Should this not succeed as rapidly as your sleep requirements would desire, use your Silva Method subjective communication to set the infant straight:

Relax to level.

Visualize the infant.

Send loving greetings.

Mentally discuss in your own words the problem and the solution. These words should be as one adult to another and bear on the need to do right for both of you. As you do this, mentally picture the desired solution. The words will help you to create a mental picture of what you desire.

End the session.



Subjective communication is higher self to higher self. A genius infant has a higher self that might be even more mature than that of the parents.

The reading that you both did to the fetus should continue with the infant. The readings chosen can be advanced, but not beyond your own understanding. Your understanding, not just the words, is what comprises the gist of what is communicated to the child as you imagine what you are reading being projected to the child.

This reading should be as close to the infant as possible, no more than 25 feet. Father canow do his reading without mother being there as during pregnancy. Mother is free to do what she wants, while father is reading to the infant.

Readings should now be entirely focused on the profession or occupation chosen for the genius-to-be. If that profession is medical doctor, parents need to borrow or buy books or periodicals on biology, anatomy, chemistry, physiology, etc. If the occupation is to be in finances or banking, daily newspapers have an assortment of reports, articles, and comment in this field. The legal profession should not be approached from the point of view of history or theory, but rather from the everyday happenings in the courtroom. This has more relevance to the future lawyer's orientation to the activities in which he or she will be involved.

A classical music background to the reading will enhance the value it will have by encouraging participation of the right brain hemisphere.

Choose toys that relate to the profession as the infant reaches the toy stage. There are quite a few toys that imitate the doctor's bag, gown, stethoscope, etc. Imitation money is available to the infant financier or businessman. Lawyers use legal pads and do a lot of research in books, so the lawyer - to - be can get used to having a lot of books around. You are bound to think of more items that are appropriate, especially if you use your Silva Method techniques.

One of the problems we face in trying to create a physical and mental environment for the infant and small child that is a taste of occupational things to come is that changes are sweeping the workplace.

The demarcation line between office work and factory work is blurring. "Thinking" work and "doing" work are merging, according to futurists. The difference between trade education and college education will disappear. After I left the armed services following World War II, I established what grew to be the number one radio and television repair school in Texas. The current trade schools and colleges are closing the traditional gap between them, and there is a bond developing between technology and academia.

Out in the field, companies are training· lower level employees to handle more responsibility. This erodes middle management personnel. Similarly, computers are able to handle complex operations, eliminating layers of supervision.

Higher education is emphasizing more hands-on experience. This work experience is not directed, so the students acquire marketing skills, merchandising ability, and self-starter motivation. In Germany today, the majority of business executives and bank managers do not have college degrees.

Of course, this will have little to no effect on future doctors or lawyers - other changes will be sweeping the work place - but when looking at other occupations you might want to include some practical shift to practicality in the reading and in the toys that you provide the budding genius, even in the infant stage. Bring in more touch, movement, animation, colors, photographs, and cut-outs.

As the infant grows and the months become years, a new line of toys, games, and readings come into your life. You need to prepare the child for his or her first teacher experience. You also need to prepare the teacher for what might be his or her first genius child experience.

The mother of the late Frank Lloyd Wright, world famous architect, kept a large picture of a gothic cathedral over his crib where his eyes would see while lying there. A woman architect, the first woman from Hawaii to be named to the American Institute of Architect's College of Fellows, and the seventy-first woman to be so named in the nation, credits a gift her grandmother gave her in third grade - a velvet-lined draftsman's case.

Everything that happens to us, from fetus to fare-thee-well, is programming for our mental computer. It's mind boggling to conceive that it can all fit in. But our mental computer far surpasses Apple, IBM, or any other make you can think of. Its limits have not been determined, if, indeed, there are any.

So, the secret behind making a genius, as this treatise emphasizes from cover to cover, is the prevention of negative or limitation programming and the increase of positive or no-limits programming.

If parents are aware of this fact and act accordingly, the genius factor is a foregone conclusion. Nobody can be perfect - not even genius. So there will be slip-ups. Here are some possibilities. Just remember that one slip-up is not going to make a dent in your plans, nor will a score of them; it's when they begin to become a noticeable portion of the day and night that genius begins to be eroded. Watch for:

When radio or tv music ends, commercials creep in. Some can be vicious. "Such and such a drug is recommended by your doctor," or "Take care of your heart or you may be next."

Family crises can be aired out of hearing of the infant, but not out of subjective reach.

Good-intentioned grandparents can voice such negative programming as "How can you do this to the baby?" "The baby is dressed too warm." "The baby will get sick.”

Discussing world affairs, listening to the evening news, or reading catastrophe details aloud from the newspaper is enough to make even adults want to return to the womb.

Before discussing problems - health, money, relationships - enter your level and mentally close a sound-proof door between you and your nursery or where the baby is.



All of this is not only a matter for genius, it is a matter of health and survival. As your infant grows into a baby and your baby into a child, your life goes on. You have the problems and challenges that are the very definition of life.

The thoughts and feelings that result from these problems and challenges are known by every cell in your body. If you are financially strapped, your baby knows it. If you have a problem with your neighbor, your body knows it. If you have a marital dispute, your body knows it. Of course, your body knows good times, too. But it is the problem or the challenge that can throttle cell growth, interfere with normal organ functioning·, and cause imbalance and disease.

And what about your infant, baby, child? Is it immune from your financial problems, your hostility, your marital fracas? Hardly. It does not have to be in your office, back yard, or bedroom. It knows. It receives the bad news subjectively. Every cell of its body knows, too. Its body may not react exactly as yours, but react it will.

One way to help prevent such a reaction, or at least soften it, is to adapt some of the Silva Method health statements and recite them repeatedly to your child while awake or even asleep. Here are some of these statements. If you do not have them memorized, you can open your eyes while at the alpha level and read them:

"(Name), dear. You will never learn to develop physically or mentally colic or other intestinal disorders.

"You will never learn to develop physically or mentally rashes or other skin diseases.

“You will never learn to develop physically or mentally circulatory ailments or diseases nor leukemia or diabetes.

"Negative thoughts and negative suggestions have no influence over you.

“You will always maintain a perfectly healthy body and mind.”

These statements should be repeated from time to time, like once per week or once per month, depending on how well things are going with you. However, these statements do not give you carte blanche to use your mind in other than positive ways; they do not constitute permission to be negative. Review some of the tips and aids provided in Part I for mental housecleaning and the maintaining of positive attitudes.

The key pollutant to genius to keep a watchful eye open for is stress. It is the most common, most recognizable, and most potentially dangerous of the mental lines of communication into the body, particularly the body's defenses.

Prolonged stress directly on the baby, or on you and therefore indirectly on the baby, results in a diminishing of the white blood cells - the immune system's army. This means more susceptibility to the ravages of germs or viruses that are always around but under control.

By now, as Silva Method graduates, you are skilled at both parenting and relieving stress in yourselves. Step up your self-awareness so that when you recognize the onset of stress you can immediately apply alpha correction.

Stress signs in your infant, baby, or child can be the crying spell, the tantrum, the throwing of toys, hyper-activity, and, of course, the onset of any physical symptoms. Identify and remove the cause of this stress, which can be anything from an open safety pin to an out of reach pacifier, or from a grating kitchen appliance noise to a dripping faucet. If the cause is less obvious, make a change in some environmental factor and it may mask the irritant.

If this is not successful, enter your alpha level, put your infant, baby, or child in front of your mental screen and ask it for the answer. "What is stressing you?" Clear your mind by thinking of something else for a moment, then come back to the question and expect an answer. An answer comes. It feels like you are making it up. That is the right feeling·. It is your genius-in-the-making answering you. If no answer comes, then address the question to your counselor in the same manner.

A major cause of stress besides mental pain is physical pain. Use your Silva Method technique for pain control, if you or your mate is experiencing pain. If pain persists, see your doctor.

If your baby is experiencing teething pain, put your Silva-numbed finger gently on the sensitive gum and imagine the numbness passing from your finger to the child's gum.

It is difficult to determine a pained area before a child can talk, but again the laboratory level can help you locate it. If the cause of the pain is also identified, you should remove it. If not, inform your physician of the problem.

If your physician can only give chemical help, seek help from the other side.

After spending 33 years with us, Jesus figured out humanity's problem and how to correct it. And he left the solution with us when he gave to Peter the Keys to the Kingdom of Heaven. It took Jesus 18 years of intensive work to find the solution, to formulate a method of mind training to slow down the brain vibrations to where a person can think with the right brain hemisphere.

Jesus taught his disciples to become prophets and wise men. The method he authored is called "The Keys to Enter the Kingdom of Heaven," a mental dimension where mind can do anything.

Now it is up to us to use the Keys - to use the Method - to center ourselves, to learn to think with the right brain hemisphere, and to get on with the business of correcting problems and helping to convert our planet into a paradise.

It took us 22 years to utilize scientific techniques to formulate and author the Silva Method. It has been like finding the long lost keys. Now we have taught millions to become clairvoyants, which is the same as prophets and wise men, or geniuses.

In other words, a prophet, a wise man (or woman), or a genius, is one who becomes clairvoyant. Could we have created clairvoyant geniuses without help from the other side?

That help is yours for the asking. You need not wait for illness, pain, or problems to arise. Use your key to the other side – your alpha level - to communicate with the other side. The entities there, or energies if you prefer, are well aware of your creation of a genius. It is a top priority on the other side. It is an essential step in their mission: To make this a better world to live in - to complete creation.

Genius takes work to create - work on the other side, work on this side. It was Ruskin, essayist, and philosopher, who said, "It is only by labor that thought can be made healthy, and only by thought that labor can be made happy; and the two cannot be separated with impunity."

You give joy to your young genius. Your young genius gives joy to you.

You get pleasure looking at the growing baby, talking to it, and hearing words begin to be spoken in return. Reward the baby with hugs, kisses, and love whenever there is an advance made in speech, in motion skills, in innovative toy play, in any advance in behavior.

There will be no punishment in the rearing of your child genius, only direction, education, praise, and reward.

Punishment, chastisement, criticism, slaps and spankings are typical negative reactions to anti-social behavior. We need to supply positive reactions. How does one react positively to negativity? It's easy when you get the knack.

Daddy's den has been invaded and his papers are strewn all over the floor.

Non-genius reaction: Slap, slap, slap. "You scamp. Keep away from my desk. If you ever do that again I'll beat the living daylights out of you!"

Genius reaction: "Come over here, dear. Would you mind putting these papers back the way you found them? When you're finished, I'll play a game with you."

A good guiding concept to keep in mind is that famous saying by Hare, "The intellect of the wise is like glass; it admits the light of heaven and also reflects it."

Although in this guide to creating a genius, we celebrate the abilities of the right brain hemisphere, it is not our intention to play down the abilities of the logical left brain. We need a well-balanced partnership with each side making contributions according to its expertise. The left brain will give you some ingenious ways to take the negativity out of punishment so that it at least masquerades as educational reward. The right brain will give you intuitive insight into the problems and inspired solutions.

An average day in the life of a pre-school child who is a genius in the making might go like this:

Mother awakens, enter the alpha level, and programs for a perfect day at home.

Father programs for a perfect day at work

They both check the baby or small child, and take care of such routine matters as diaper-changing, toilet training, washing, bathing straightening the cot or crib - all to the accompaniment of loving and endearing words, and possibly classical music.

Father tells the baby or small child about what he expects to do at work, and, if there is time, reads from the professional or occupational literature.

Mother brings the baby or small child breakfast and feeds it and/or talks about some world news of the day.

Mother enters alpha and programs herself and the baby with Silva beneficial statements including the genius statements.

Father thinks of the baby or small child whenever a business even takes place that he had mentioned that morning. "See, Billy, this is what I meant."

Mother goes over colors and their names, alphabet cards and their sounds, arithmetic numbers and sums, or words on cards and how they are read, progression as the baby or child ages at a speed just slightly faster than the progress made. This is followed by toys or a story.

Father returns home and reads to child from profession or occupational material, followed by a fun story.

Father and mother join in bed-time preparations, saturating the baby or child in terms of praise and endearment.

Father and mother entre their alpha level to solve any problems, to program improvements, and to thank the other side for its continuing assistance.



These steps and events are not commandments carved in stone, but they illustrate the genius-creating program in its day-to-day profile. If in doubt about what to do next, put your three fingers together and follow whatever constructive, positive, creative idea comes to mind. Of course, these are genius creating steps and are in addition to the normal up-bringing activities for the day.

As the child approaches kindergarten age, you need to start selecting the school and conferring with the initial teachers that the child will have.

Ideally, if this child will be a physician, the school attended should be one that teaches only healing subjects. A primary grade school that teaches only health subjects is still in the future as I write this. But we are talking about the future - at least five years.

These schools should also teach memory courses and courses on how to learn. They should teach proper study habits and how to make frequent use of the Silva Method learning techniques such as the memory pegs and Three Fingers Technique.

They must allow the use of calculators, computers, television and other techniques or equipment for accelerated learning.

When the school is selected and before classes begin, parents should request a meeting with the administration and the teacher or teachers that the child will initially have.

Teacher s must know that this child has been especially conceived, and they must continue to reinforce the concept that this child is going to solve the problems that will take place fifteen years from the day the child was conceived. That is, at the age of 15, this child will start working as a doctor in medical science, or whatever profession or occupation was selected. The child will marry at that age and start forming its own family.

If you have doubts about the progressive aspect of the school and no better choice exists, have subjective communication with the faculty members in advance, even though you have not met them. At alpha, explain the special nature of this educational challenge and appeal to their sense of professionalism to cooperate in this special case for the good of humankind.

We have now reached the point where Part I coverage began as far as schooling is concerned. In Part I the child genius was already seven years old and therefore a couple of years into school. Your child will soon begin school, and despite being three years younger in age, may be even more advanced in terms of genius.

So all of the assistance offered to parents by Part I is now relevant to Part II parents. It should be re-read or reviewed and a list of points compiled that enrich your genius-creating abilities.

Your four or five year old child has many advantages over the seven year old child who just began the genius-creating process. First, its capacity for genius is likely to be greater considering that it was attracted to you the parents prior to conception in your spiritual call for genius. Second, it has had several years of being read to, of being serenaded with classical music, of training with flash cards, and being programmed out of limitations and into genius-level talents and abilities.

On the other hand, the five-year-old child has not yet received the Silva Method training, whereas the Part I seven-year-old has already been Silva trained. Put the two children side by side and it may be hard to tell which is more advanced. They are both capable of astounding neighbors, teachers, and others who observe them.

Remember when the Russians first experimented with under water birthing. If you saw the television runs of this, you watched as infants in their first few minutes out of the womb swam gracefully underwater - an astounding feat. Still, it was only an inkling of what infants are capable of. Your genius-in-the-making has no doubt astounded you may times since birth. Now that he or she is ready for formal school, those surprises are about to snowball.

This is not right. It is right for your child to perform mentally far beyond other children of the same age, but it is not right for you to be surprised. Being surprised means that your expectations are not high enough. If these expectations lag your child's accomplishments, you are an impedance to those accomplishments. You want to be a support, not a load.

As your child begins formal classes, expect the impossible. Accept no limits. Know that the efforts of you and your mate have been a blessing to the child and to the world.

We were sent to work every second of the day being creative and constructive. We were not built to wait years before we learn this or that. We are not sent here, as left brainers think, to be on a vacation. You, your mate, and your genius child are now closer to your Creator. You are all important players on the Creator's team.

Yes, the difference between genius mentality and lay mentality is that geniuses use more of their minds and use them in a special manner.

That one difference makes all the difference between people who are creating the problems that threaten our very survival and people who can end those problems and save our world.





Chapter 10

PROCEDURE DURING SCHOOLING UNTIL A 15-YEAR-OLD GENIUS GOES TO WORK

There are many parents who are likely to cringe at the genius-creating program, considering it as too heartless and rigorous for an infant, baby, and child. And there are many counselors, therapists, and physicians who will deplore the deprivation of so much recreational time and play time with other children.

This is a standard left brain reaction from those who do not understand the functions of the right brain. They have been brought up by left brain parents and educated by left brain teachers. It is only natural for them to have a left brain outlook and a left brain viewpoint. It is a viewpoint that sees life as a vacation and any problem that arises as time for a coffee break.

I don't mean to be hard on the average person who knows no better, but I would like to take each and every one of you on a tour of planet earth. We will visit the last of the rain forests, the last black rhinoceros lying dead and de-tusked in the mud, the once pristine lakes alive with fish now dead poisoned ponds.

We will visit schools and see how students abuse their teachers and stab themselves. We will visit city streets where gang warfare fills the gutters with blood. We will sit in on jury trials where people sit in judgement of each other and award seven figure judgements and interminable prison terms. We will visit those prisons and see how the guilt of inhumanity on the outside is continued on the inside. I'll spare you areas of famine and warfare.

We will visit lawmakers taking lobbyists' gifts and enacting preferential laws, diplomats taking favors and siding with the bad guys, enforcement officers breaking the laws they were hired to enforce.

This is the world that left brainers have created. This is the world that they would have our infants, babies, and children fit into and perpetuate. This is a world even further deteriorated than the world that Jesus came to save.

Do you left brainers want once again to refuse his offer of prophets and wise men in favor of this status quo? We need to call a halt to the status quo. We need to create geniuses in our infants, babies, and children - every one of them.

We need to do more. We need to become geniuses ourselves - starting now.

Country singer Merle Haggard was interviewed by Dan Miller on Miller & Company on The Nashville Network (TNN) recently. In talking about his musical talent, Haggard said that while his mother was pregnant with him, she prayed that he'd be born with the same musical talent that his father had. His father could sing like Jimmy Rogers, accompanying himself on the guitar or the fiddle. Haggard said he feels that there must be something to that kind of prayer, considering the outstanding career he's had.

Activating the right brain is like prayer in that it establishes communication with the creative realm. It takes a monopoly away from the left brain which is your limited physical world logical thinking and adds to it a much higher intelligence. How high? Well, let me describe to you the latest advances in left brain intelligence and then make a comparison.

Four million scientists are now connected world-wide through a maze of more than eleven thousand separate networks into one gigantic network called Internet. A lone researcher sitting at a computer screen can be instantly linked to colleagues on far away continents and have access to their latest discoveries. This lone researcher can tap into electronic mail, electronic meetings, and electronic journals.

When a robot of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution explored the bottom of the Gulf of California a mile down, instantly the bizarre life forms and raw data were carried over a tether to the surface vessel and then flashed via satellite to computer networks around the globe. Researchers on other continents knew the robot's findings even before it was raised to the surface.

How does this monumental electronic intelligence compare to high intelligence of the creative realm? A drop in the ocean. Higher intelligence is infinite intelligence. Is Internet infinite? Far from it. Already it is becoming a horrible problem. Some people have stopped using it as they get more than five hundred messages a day. Data overload and psychological burnout are already critical factors.

Will higher intelligence ever suffer from burnout? Does this immense universe give its Creator overload problems?

Activating the right hemisphere is actually hooking up to what scientists call a cosmic computer and what religionists call God.

You and I cannot survive in a left brain world. So not only must we activate our right brain and our child's right brain, but we must encourage others to do it, too. I have some 500 people around the world who are full time encouragers. They are the certified Silva Method lecturers who constantly set up two-day, 3-day, and four-day training sessions that turn left-brainers into centered thinkers and therefore geniuses.

The millions we have trained need to do likewise - encourage others to connect to higher intelligence and turn this planet around before it is too late.

As I write this, the evening newspaper is opened before me. On just one single page I see the following words and phrases in headlines and single column heads:

Corrupt tax men

Crooked leaders

Warlord

Arms race

Shelling pounds city

8 killed

Embezzlement

Abuse of Power

What else is new? Don't answer that question - I don't want to know.

If we could all tip the balance with right brainers perhaps we will see those negative headlines changed to:

Centenarians meet

Energy from space

Prisons converted

Armaments dumped

Reforestation progress

Discovery made at alpha

Housing problem solved

Hunger obsolete

Your child genius can play an important role in this drama.

He or she is already able to read, write, and solve arithmetic and verbal problems before their first day in school. Their first meeting with the teacher causes eyes to open wide and mouths to want to gape.

"You see that our child will not fit into kindergarten," you say, realizing you are making the understatement of the year.

"I certainly do," is the teacher’s reply, "but our school1s policy is not to set aside age requirements.”

"You can change policy,” you suggest.

"I'll have to discuss that with the principal.”

"Can we see the principal now?"

The teacher walks you and your child genius to the principal's office where you wait outside. The door opens and he or she invites you in.

The teacher intervenes for you. “This child is to start school next week. However, the child's reading, writing, and other skills are at a fifth grade level.”

The principal looks shocked. He rises. There is a tête-à-tête with the teacher in the corner. Your child is invited to join the conference. You and your mate sit and wait.

"We are going to make an exception in your child's case," says the principal smiling and returning to his desk. "However, it will be a trial and how it works out will determine our future course. Your child will not start in kindergarten, but fifth grade is too much of a risk. Third grade is our decision."

You thank teacher and principal and hug your child. An accelerated school program is under way.

This is an optimistic scenario. But you can make it more likely with subjective communication days before. Plato, who lived in the fourth century B.C., believed in special education for children with special intelligence. He saw them as becoming "philosopher kings" advising others how to live.

It the main characters do not cooperate, use the three picture technique on your mental screen and ask for another meeting a few weeks into the school term. By then, your child should be helping the kindergarten or first grade teacher with slow learners. If that does not bring about the optimistic scenario, make an appointment to see the school district superintendent.

Higher intelligence will find a way. Your genius child will be recognized and placed where educational challenge will be provided. A final recourse is always home study if legal in your state. If not, certified correspondence schools can augment any required but unfruitful school attendance.

You and your mate have invested years of your time in the creation of your genius. You still have years to go. The initial years were independent. The next years will be more coordinated with existing institutions and a bureaucratic society, requiring you to run interference for your genius and perhaps to take an even more aggressive role in the child's education.

Difficulty itself can be a teacher and in overcoming difficulty, you are not only making progress yourself but quite likely for millions of others.

I quote Burke: "Difficulty is a severe instructor, set over us by the supreme ordinance of a parental guardian and legislator, who knows us better than we know ourselves, and He loves us better too."

Genius will win.

At age seven, with your child's brain wave frequency evolving-to the alpha frequency, the time has come for you and your spouse to consider administering what you can of the Silva Method training to the child yourselves or using Appendix A as a guide. This is an optional step.

Although family-administered, the training· will activate the use of the right brain and connect you to higher intelligence thus making you wise, clairvoyant, psychic, and a genius. It will not do all that the 4-day training will do. Where it falls short is in the establishment of points of reference at the subjective or right brain level. These points of reference are established over a period of more than a day of the 4-day training and enable the graduate at the end of the day to work health cases with dramatic accuracy. However, following the guessing exercises and other procedures supplied earlier in Part I will produce equivalent results.

It will take practice and use of the right brain by your mate, yourself, and your child before you will acquire these subjective points of reference to make the three of you more skilled and accurate. However, the visualization and imagination exercises that you administer to your child are sufficient.

Wherever your child is along the education treadmill when at the age of seven, he or she receives the Silva Method training, it will cause another quantum leap in learned skills. This means convincing school officials to grant another leap in grades, probably by-passing the rest of primary school and beginning high school. Decisions in such instances should also involve the child genius, who is now mature enough, even at the diminutive age of eight, to give helpful input in the decision process.

Once the child has received the Silva Method training, a whole new approach to learning becomes available.

In the beginning, the parents and teachers were in beta while reading the lessons, because they had to read (verbally or mentally) with their eyes open and focused on the text.

After the child is able to enter level, the parent or the teacher can record the lesson. Then the teacher and the student enter their level together and listen to the recorded lessons. While doing this, the parent or teacher (at his or her level) mentally pictures the child already successful as a medical doctor, and also guides the student, through imagery, in relation to the recorded lesson.

Later in the more advanced stages, the student can include the practice of working health detection and correction cases in his or her daily routine. A specific number of cases can be provided per lesson, perhaps dealing with the subject of the lesson. In other words, if you are studying the physiology of the heart, then the student could work cases of heart patients, detecting the specific problems associated with this particular case.

Naturally the student would practice all of the other Silva Method techniques as taught by the parents and as needed by his or her profession or occupation, becoming proficient in them, and eventually reaching the point where this objective-subjective functioning is so natural that the techniques are no longer needed.

The child who learn to enter the alpha level from the parents who use Appendix A is able to use the alpha level effectively and demonstrate bi-camera! (both brain hemisphere) thinking at will. But, as I said before, the four-day training would be a wiser choice.

I would estimate that the formal four-day Silva Method training has a factor of safety of at least two or three. Factor of safety is an engineering term meaning how many times stronger a bridge or structure is than it needs to be to carry the expected load.

The 4-day training is much more thorough than it needs to be to succeed with the average person. Not only do people who are skeptical and less cooperative get fully trained, but when the training is adapted as in Appendix A, it still works its magic. Take this instance involving the St. Dismus School in Florissant, Missouri, where Sister Geraldin Evekv helped 107 volunteer students in seventh and eighth grades to relax physically and mentally in order to lower their brain frequency to the alpha level. For one week she helped these students in the morning at the start of class to enter their alpha level. Then, for one more week, she gave them time to enter their alpha level on their own.

With just two weeks of classroom experience being able to enter alpha, the volunteer students were then asked to list the benefits they enjoyed by utilizing the alpha level. They were to use their own words in expressing these advantages. These are listed in the September column. Three weeks later, they were asked again to list the benefits. These are listed in the October column (partial list):

Student Responses

September

October

Total



General Good Feeling



Made me relaxed

45

23

68



Made me feel good, better

9

4

13



Made me feel more energetic

1

2

3



Made me feel more alert

4

3

7



Helped me feel rested, awake

17

2

19



Clears my mind

2

2



Feeling pleasant, being happy

1

1





Help with School Work



Helped me in my studies

17

1

18



Really helps me think better

21

4

25



Helps me give better attention in class

7

3

10



Helped me get better grades

4

3

7



Made my brain ready for class

5

0

5



It is easier to do my home and school work

1

4

5



Doing better in reading

4

2

6



Doing better in math

5

1

6



All my lessons are improving

1

2

3



I can study better

2

4

6



Calmer during a test

2

4

6



Helped me with a test

15

15



Like school more

1

1

2



Have not been sluggish in school

1

1



Better able to concentrate

2

2



Helped me write a paper

1

1



Remembering better

3

3



Remembered who wrote “I Was a 98-lb. Duckling”

1

1



Abled to do harder problems since I’m relaxed

2

2



No problem in math or literature

1

1



Math is a lot easier

1

1



Understand a lot of things I didn’t before

1

1



Helped me behave

1

1



We’ve all changed from it, not much, but enough to tell

1

1



I do neater work

1

1



These were only part of the multitude of benefits listed by the participating students. It is interesting to note that most of the benefits were experienced immediately - in the first two weeks.

Right brain advantages, once activated, do not stand on ceremony.

The significance to me of this survey is that it had to be conducted at all. Who cannot possibly find advantages in using more of their mind?

Your genius child, now reaching pre- or early teens, is applying for college entrance. College board exams are being taken, albeit not officially sponsored by teachers leery about having their records tarnished by a low mark, and later remorseful because the youngster's marks would have raised their average.

Colleges and universities are processing your child's application and replies are beginning to arrive. Accepted. Accepted. Rejected. Accepted.

Higher education does not usually set up the age blocks that younger students are confronted with in primary and secondary schools. If state run, there is a greater chance of this than privately run, but even then there is more flexibility.

By now parent-sponsored home study is confined to assistance with advanced correspondence courses or difficult university courses. Since these are likely to be beyond the parents own understanding, such assistance is usually limited to pointing in the direction of relevant information sources.

Your genius is now outgrowing childhood and approaching adulthood. For those who criticized your accelerated learning program as depriving your child of childhood, it is in these pre-teen and early teen years that the real deprivation begins.

Your genius is severely deprived by not being able to join a gang. He or she will probably not be included in latrine smoking parties. There will be little or no opportunity for sexual experimentation and pregnancy. The whole drug· picture will pass him or her by. Graffiti will be a missed art as will be shop lifting and car theft.

But there will be added benefits not usually available to early teenagers. These might be a chance to give a medical paper before a professional seminar, or the prestige of having an article published in a prestigious journal.

Your genius is about ready to strut his stuff or spread her wings.

University staffs and programs are highly cooperative in the providing of advanced opportunities. It is to the credit of the university's image and reputation to have your genius demonstrate innovation, research acumen, and creativity. This helps your genius to thrive. Bachelor's degrees become routine for a 15-year-old. Many can attain masters and even doctorates by that age.

I'm not degrading secondary school educators. They are fervently devoted in large part to the cause of being to help create leaders in the world. But they are hog- tied by the system. Occasionally they break loose, especially private schools. Hallahan High School in Philadelphia was one. More than twenty years ago, the faculty and students were given the Silva Method training. Here is a letter I later received from the principal of that school:

Dear Mr. Silva,

Words cannot express my gratitude for all that you and your associates have done for Hallahan High School. The faculty and students now have a new view of education, and school has become a vibrant, alive place to be. Never could we have afforded this without your grant of $250,000. The parents of the students, most of whom are from lower income areas, expressed their appreciation that something so enlightening was given to their children. Nothing like this was ever done before.

The results of your efforts will come forth year by year. Feel proud that you have helped two thousand persons to be better in every way.

Gratefully yours,

(Signed)

(Rev.) John F. Rilley, Principal

It is important to have the administration satisfied with the results of the training, but it is more gratifying to me to have the students realize the benefits of the training. About this same period in the history of the Silva Method, another private school solicited its students’ reactions. Responding to a questionnaire, 196 of the 374 Silva Method trainees at Incarnate Word High School in San Antonio, Texas, evaluated their experience as follows:

Do you understand the basic principles of Mind Control?

94% yes



Do you see any value in learning Mind Control in school?

84% yes



Do you feel the instructors were properly prepared?

100% yes



Do you feel the instructors understood you as a student?

96% yes



Do you think the course was worth the week out from school?

96% yes



Would you recommend it become a part of curriculum required for college-bound students?

90% yes



Has Mind Control helped you?

93% yes



Has it helped you help others?

81% yes



Are you glad you took it?

96% yes



These students then indicated which of the techniques they had used since completing the course. The most popular were:

The Three Fingers Technique, 88%;

Laboratory and Counselors, 84%;

Mirror of the Mind, 76 % ; and

Awake Control to remain awake longer, 73%.



Let me comment on the popularity of the Three Fingers Technique. At a high school where only the Three Fingers Technique was programmed as a tool for accelerated learning, the examination marks of the experimental group went up from an average of 63 to 72, while a control group's marks went from 64 to 63. The university professor who conducted the experiment, Dr. Harry Stanton, summed up the results this way in an article in The Journal of the Society for Accelerative Learning and Teaching:

"From the results of this study it would seem reasonable to conclude that the Three Fingers Technique is able to facilitate short-term improvement in second year high school students' examination performance. Whether this is a valid measure of increased academic ability is debatable, but it is one of the very few objective indices which we have.

"The technique is a very simple one which students have no trouble in learning. Initially, their curiosity is piqued; later their interest is maintained as they find it becoming easier for them to remember the material they read and hear about in the classroom. Success breeds success. As students use the technique with increasing confidence in its effectiveness, so they seem to cope more capably with their schoolwork. This improvement is reflected in better examination performance which in turn fuels further confidence in the Three Fingers Technique."

When I study the New Testament, I am a little apologetic for the Three Fingers Technique. It seems quite unlikely that it was contained in the Keys to the Kingdom of Heaven that Jesus gave to Peter.

Yet, among the millions of Silva Method graduates who now have access to the Kingdom of Heaven within, putting the three fingers together seems to be the most frequently used of the Silva techniques. Perhaps its popularity is due to the fact that once you have programmed the technique to work, you do not have to use the three to one method to enter the alpha level to use it. You trigger more right brain activity by putting the thumb, forefinger, and middle finger of either hand in a tip-touching position. This takes an instant. And in a flash, the answer comes. Certainly, this is something parents can teach their child.

My rationale in including it in the training is that we have descended even more deeply into the material world than we were in Jesus' day. We need a material world tool that we can reach from where we are now to pull ourselves up. The Three Fingers Technique is exactly that. No deep breathing or turning the eyes upward. No visualizing or imagining. Only a left brain instant action. You turn on the right brain and are connected with your higher self, high intelligence, and the Creator.

Of course, remember that all subjective techniques, to be effective, must first be programmed at the proper depth of mind. When you are at the deepest level, you can pre-program the use of the Three Fingers Technique for this purpose.

Thanks to the Three Fingers Technique and its instant accessibility and results, many Silva Method graduates maintain their Silva right brain orientation due largely to that technique. It is an easy way out of the depths of the material world of the body and into the spiritual world of the mind.

That's what this book has been all about: Living as much in the spiritual world as in the material world. To those who are still left brained, you who live partly in the spiritual world appear as geniuses. In reality, you are merely as your Creator intended you to be.

Consequently, lurking between the lines on every page of this book is a benefit to you, your spouse, and your genius child which, although unmentioned until now, is the Creator' s gift to you.

To earn this gift, all you need to do is function with both brain hemispheres and simply help God with creation. You three have been doing this and so the gift of happiness is mandated for the three of you.

We all have comforts in this material world that our forefathers did not have the benefit of. Are we happier for them? No. Most of us come home after a hard day's work, plop into a stuffed chair, watch television, have a hot dinner, go to bed and do it all over again tomorrow.

Is that the definition of happiness? Hardly. But these people do not complain because they look around and see everybody doing the same thing. They think that this must be happiness.

By contrast, let's take a look at you, your spouse, and your genius child.

You are coming home after a day's work that was not hard. Perhaps you went to level two or three times to ward off stress, heighten energy, or solve a problem. Because you all have been functioning throughout the day with both brain hemispheres and because you have been helping to make this a better world by extending God's work, you don't need a stuffed chair; any chair is fine. You don't need to turn on the television set; you are each company enough for the other. You are happy.

To magnify this happiness, your health is fine. Your finances are sufficient to take care of your needs. Your marital relationship is fulfilling. Your parent-child relationship is one of mutual respect and admiration. You are happy.

People are attracted to you because of your serenity and peace of mind. They come to you for advice and guidance - not on such minor matters as whether tomorrow will be all right for a picnic, but rather such matters as which car is a better buy, which book is a better read, and which job offers a better future. They rely on your opinion on health, finances, and careers. There is no sign on your front door that reads GENIUS INSIDE, but there might just as well be.

Work for God and He works for you. You can have no better ally.

As we come to a close in directing you in the most important creative act you can choose to do for your Creator - creating a genius - I realize in my enthusiasm I have covered the major steps, but I have not been of much help in the day-to-day details. This does not hurt my conscience in the least, because you will receive a lot more help than I am giving once you get started.

You will have help from the other side in deciding how to teach various matters that could seem overwhelming to a child so young. This help will come in the form of inspiration of the moment; of flashes of your own genius; of accident, synchronicity, and coincidence. You won't recognize this help most of the time, but it will be there.

Perhaps you will teach your baby while it is crawling on the floor instead of sitting in a chair.

Perhaps in writing large numbers you will use red crayons for the millions digits, green for the thousands, and blue for those below that.

Perhaps you will have your baby genius write vertically instead of horizontally to get started.

Perhaps you will play a game of story-telling with your child taking different parts with different tones of voice.

Perhaps you will use loops to accept punctuation marks or new words or ones hard to pronounce.

Perhaps you will ask your child to picture something in their head that you want them to remember.

Perhaps you will have a reward waiting every successful forward step in learning.

Perhaps you will play catchy tunes as the child learns spelling.

Perhaps you will divide difficult words into easier syllables.

Perhaps you will teach history together with arithmetic or science together with reading.



All of these details in home study will come to you when needed, and many others. You are plugged in. You will know what to do, when, and how to do it - not only on these little matters, but also on major steps and decisions.

God will be in your consciousness and you will live normally at a high level of elation. You will be an example to others who have lost God or banished Him, through left brain dominance, from their consciousness. While they languish, you will prosper.

Remember always that a genius uses more of the mind and uses it in a special manner and since that is exactly what you do, therefore that is exactly whom you are.

I bid you farewell, but before I leave, may I have a word with your genius child? Thank you…

Hello. You may not believe this that I am about to say but - life on this planet has been waiting for you. plant life, animal life, human life. You are to be their salvation. Don't let me frighten you. It sounds like a tall order. It is. But you will have invisible support and assistance.

Thanks to this assistance, you will be able to guess dependably. Your guess will be more times right than wrong. People will say you are lucky.

But what is a "lucky person"? It is one who is more times right than wrong, because that person is helped by God ; the person is God-connected, divinely inspired, and prophetic. This person is more times right than wrong because the person is being constructive and creative and helping God perfect creation on this planet.

Such a person will continue to be "lucky" as long as the person continues to use most of the material gains to help God solve problems that hinder constructive progress, and also to correct the problems that cause human suffering.

I know that you are such a person. You are a genius, but you are also a humanitarian, a philanthropist, a prophet, and a clairvoyant.

Congratulations. I won't keep you. You have work to do.





Appendix A

Introduction Some of the readers of this book are graduates of the Silva Method four-day training, such as the Silva Method Basic Lecture Series (BLS), Sales Lecture Series (SLS), or the Silva Business Programs.

If you are among these, then you have already learned how to enter your alpha level, and you have participated in the mental projection exercises and have worked at least 10 health detection and correction cases.

You readers - who are Silva Method graduates - are fully qualified and capable of using every technique presented in this book.

You are able to use your clairvoyant abilities to project into the future to determine what kind of genius will be needed 15 years from now.

Once you determine what kind of person is needed, you are able to attract this person to be born to you.

You will be the ideal teacher for your child. I have always believed that it is better for parents to train their children, than to have our lecturers do it. You are there with them all the time, you have better rapport with them, and you have a great natural desire to help them.



This appendix offers information that is essential in helping you to do this more effectively.

Readers who are not graduates of the four-day Silva Method training are encouraged to take the training immediately so as to be fully qualified for the clairvoyant activities involved.

In order to fully train your child in the Silva Method before birth, after birth, and after the age of 14, you must be clairvoyants. It requires the mind of a clairvoyant to teach subjective communication to others. However, in order to start training a child when the child is between seven and fourteen, all the parents need to know is what visualization and imagination are, to teach that to the child, and get the child to practice.

To do it more professionally, at the very least, before you begin to teach your children to become geniuses, you should follow self-training program that is presented here.

FOUR-DAY TRAINING

A pre-requisite to being able to follow the instructions in this book has been repeatedly stated to be taking the four-day Silva Method training from a certified Silva Method lecturer. To find the name and phone number of the lecturer in your area, check the web or contact:

Silva International, Inc.

P O Box 2249

Laredo, Texas 7804-2249

www.silvamethod.com

FORTY- DAY TRAINING

If you cannot take the four-day training, then it is mandatory that the substitute training that follows be administered by wife to husband and by husband to wife.

It is natural that any substitute is not as effective as an original. This training takes longer - 40 days - and does not provide the formula-type techniques of the four-day training. Nor is it as intense.

However, there are countless thousands of self-trained and family-trained parents and their children who have become centered in their thinking. This means that they have acquired the ability to relax almost instantly, both physically and mentally. They are skilled in visualization and imagination. They have thereby learned to slow their brain waves, activate the right brain hemisphere, and tap into the creative realm.

Begin this forty-day training with joy, desire, and expectation of success. Follow the instructions conscientiously knowing that the prize at the end of the training is happiness and mental ability beyond belief.

First 10 Days

You will count down on awakening in the morning, following the instructions that will now be given you. When you reach the count of 1, the reader (spouse or parent) will then read aloud statements that will be offered to you to accept or reject, and which, when accepted, will provide benefits and advantages you desire.

Instructions for Counting Down

On awakening, go to the bathroom if you need to, return to bed, propping up the pillow so you can sit comfortably. Alert your reader that you will be ready in a few minutes.

Close your eyes and roll them slightly upwards toward your eyebrows.

County slowly and silently from 100 to 1. Wait about one second between numbers.

When you reach the count of 1, visualize yourself. Mentally perceive yourself as youthful, radiant, healthy, and attractive.

Keeping your eyes closed, call to your reader, "I am ready." When exercise is over, come out of your level by counting slowly from 1 to 5 and say men tally, "I am wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect health."



First 10 Days

All readings should be done at a moderately slow pace with a minimum of variation in tone. Simple positive statements should be read each of these ten days. Here are some suggested statements.

The following are beneficial statements that you may occasionally repeat while at the s e levels of the mind. Repeat mentally after me.

My increasing mental faculties are for serving humanity better. (pause)

Every day, in every way, I am getting better, better, and better. (pause)

Positive thoughts bring me benefits and advantages I desire. (pause)

I have full control and complete dominion over my sensing faculties at this level of the mind and any other level, including the outer conscious level. And this is so. (pause)

I will always maintain a perfectly healthy body and mind. (pause)

The difference between genius mentality and lay mentality is that geniuses use more of their minds and use them in a special manner. You are now learning to use more of your mind and to use it in a special manner.

Second 10 Days

Count down from 50 to 1 following the same procedure, and ending 1 to 5 "wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect health.”

Have subject visualize familiar sight. Some suggestions are:

Places visited

People known to you

Rooms of your home

Building in your city

Natural objects such as fruits, flowers, trees, birds, stars, moon, hills rivers

Third 10 Days

Count down from 25 to 1 following the same procedure, and ending 1 to 5 "wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect health.”

Have subject imagine unfamiliar sights. Some suggestions are:

Places never visited.

People never seen.

Rooms of a neighbor's house not visited.

Buildings in another city never seen.

What it is like in a submarine.

What it is like in a spaceship.

What it is like inside a brick


Fourth 10 Days

Count down from 10 to 1 allowing the same procedure, and ending 1 to 5 "wide awake, feeling fine and in perfect health."

Have subject visualize conditions that need improvement, followed by imagining those conditions changed for the better. Some suggestions are:


Peace in troubled spots

Streets safe

Everybody a genius

Better family harmony

Health improved

Money in abundance

Better neighborly relations

Creative talents





